St. Joseph's College of Engineering and Technology, Palai (SJCET Palai) is a private engineering college located in Pala, Kerala, India. Managed by the Syro-Malabar Catholic Diocese of Pala, the college is affiliated with Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University. It is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and offers professional degree programs in engineering and management.

SJCET Palai has received accreditation from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA). In 2012, the NBA accredited four of its undergraduate engineering programs—Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, and Mechanical Engineering—for a period of three years. In 2019, the NBA re-accredited the Electronics and Communication Engineering and Mechanical Engineering programs, with the accreditation valid until June 30, 2022. Recently, the college received accreditation for its MCA and Electrical and Electronics Engineering programs. The college has been awarded an 'A' grade by NAAC and attained autonomous status in July 2024.

Courses offered:
Undergraduate courses
B.Tech. in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
B.Tech. in Civil Engineering
B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security)
B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence)
B.Tech. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering
B.Tech. in Electronics and Communications Engineering
B.Tech. in Electronics and Computer Engineering
B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering

Post graduate courses
M.Tech. in Advanced Manufacturing & Production Management
M.Tech. in VLSI & Embedded Systems
M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. in Advanced Communication & Information Systems
M.Tech. in Structural Engineering & Construction Management
Master of Business Administration
Master of Computer Applications
Integrated - Master of Computer Applications

For all admission correspondences, contact: Dr. Jyothis Thomas, Admission Officer, Mob: 91 9447205778 For NRI Seats: Contact: 91 8078 701 701, For any kinds of Technical Assistants while Applying Online, Contact: 04822239809 , 91 7012666393 | Email: sdcsjcetpalai.ac.in

Research and development activities
SJCET has received a financial grant of Rs 2.80 Lakh from NMICET MHRD Govt. of India to set up HD Audio Video streaming Conference through R & D centre of CSE Department. Mr. Deepu Job is the faculty in charge of the R & D centre.
CSE department has initiated a portable NAS storage solution for moving 10 TB of data from IIT Madras to SJCET Campus.
Low-cost incubator: A low-cost incubator is developed and is under test as per requirement of a local resident under the guidance of Mr. Mohit John and supervision of Mr. Jomy Joseph of Applied Electronics & Instrumentation Department
Bus scheduling system: Inspired from district collectors SMART Kottayam initiative, a smart bus schedule system is developed in-house and installed in KSRTC bus terminals of Palai & Erattupetta under the guidance of Mr.Mohit John and supervision of M/s. Jomy Joseph, Sreekumar K.T & Justin Tom of Applied Electronics & Instrumentation Department. The smart bus schedule system is also installed at Thiruvalla bus terminal.

Student hostels
The students are provided accommodation within the campus itself. The hostels in the campus are:
St. Thomas Hostel (for men)
St. Alphonsa Hostel (for men)
St. Augustine's Hostel (for women)
St. Mary's Hostel (for men)

MCA Teachers or Factualities:
Dr. Rahul Shajan  Associate Professor & Head  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 8921397634  Email: hodmca@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof. Alex Jose  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 9605024999  Email: alex@sjcetpalai.ac.In
Prof. Liz George  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 9526611300  Email: liz@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof.Anish Augustine K  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 9747740033  Email: anish.augustine@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof.Akhil Sekharan  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 8547629557  Email: akhil.sekharan@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof.Sumithmon KS  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 9562373008  Email:sumithmarar@gmail.com
Rev. Dr. Jeethu Mathew  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 9495127007  Email: frjithu@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof. Jeena Maria Sebastian  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: 8281757760  Email: jeenamariasebastian@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof. Binila Binoy  Assistant Professor  Department of Computer Applications  Mobile Number: +91 80783 88926  Email: binilabinoy@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Mr. Aneesh Sankar  Instructor  Diploma  aneesh@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 9446802475
Mr. Ajay S  Instructor  Diploma  ajay@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 9744140490
Mr. Rony Jacob  System Administrator  AMIE (EC)  rony@sjcetplai.ac.in  +91 9446604135

Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) teachers

Dr. Joby P P  Professor & Head   M.Tech, Ph.D.  hodcs@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 8281 539 018
Dr. Praseetha V M  Professor & Head (In-charge) CSE (AI)   M.Tech, Ph.D.  praseetha.v.m@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 9447603338
Dr. George Tom Varghese  Associate Professor & Dean Academics II  M.Tech, Ph.D.  georgetomvarghese@sjcetpalai.ac.in  9497322385
Mrs.Smitha Jacob  Assistant Professor & NBA Coordinator  ME  smitha.jacob@sjcetpalai.ac.in  919446922158
Mr. Kishore Sebastian  Assistant Professor  ME (Pursuing Ph.D.)  kishore.sebastian@sjcetpalai.ac.in  919656800223
Mrs.Mereen Thomas  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  mereen.thomas@sjcetpalai.ac.in  919847043961
Mrs.Divya Sunny  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  divya.sunny@sjcetpalai.ac.in  919446327410
Mr. Sarju S  Assistant Professor  ME (Pursuing Ph.D.)   sarju.s@sjcetpalai.ac.in  919447233663
Mrs. Sinu Maria Kurian  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  sinu.maria.kurian@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 8129617741
Mrs. Angitha George  Assistant Professor  ME  angitha.george@sjcetpalai.ac.in  919495664428
Mr. Bino Thomas  Assistant Professor  M.Tech (Pursuing Ph.D.)  bino.thomas@sjcetpalai.ac.in  91 9447383034
Ms. Ashly Thomas  Assistant Professor  M.Tech (Pursuing Ph.D.)  ashly.thomas@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 9446803437
Mr. Jikku Thomas  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  jikku.thomas@sjcetpalai.ac.in  +91 9446 305 535
Mr. Jibin Philip  Assistant Professor  M.E  jibinphilip@sjcetpalai.ac.in  8281042328
Ms. Anu V Kottath  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  anuvkottath@sjcetpalai.ac.in  8281669490
Ms. Thushara Sukumar  Assistant Professor  M. E  thusharasukumar@sjcetpalai.ac.in  9562551893
Ms. Maria Yesudass
Assistant Professor
M.Tech
mariayesudas@sjcetpalai.ac.in
8281378231

Ms. Dona Mary Cherian
Assistant Professor
M. Tech
dona@sjcetpalai.ac.in
9495921643

Ms. Dyni Thomas
Assistant Professor
M. Tech
dyni@sjcetpalai.ac.in
8281355089

Ms. Athirasree Das
Assistant Professor
M.Tech
athirasreedas@gmail.com
9778359463

Ms.Amala Mathew
Assistant Professor
M.Tech
amalamathew@sjcetpalai.ac.in
9946060500
Mr. Vimal Babu P
Assistant Professor
M.Tech
vimalbabup@sjcetpalai.ac.in
9447383041
Ms. Anju B  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  anju@sjcetpalai.ac.in  9605054820
Ms. Gayathri R Krishna  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  gayathrirkrishna@sjcetpalai.ac.in  8589083573
Ms. Subini Therese Babu  Assistant Professor  ME  subinitheresebabu@sjcetpalai.ac.in  9605642552
Ms. Syamamol T  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  syamamol@sjcetpalai.ac.in  9656668840
Ms.Devika S  Assistant Professor  M.Tech  devika.s@sjcetpalai.ac.in  7306879668
Mr. Thomas John  Instructor  MSc Computer Science  thomas.john@sjcetpalai.ac.in  91 9946324895
Mr. Manoj George  Instructor  Diploma  manoj.george@sjcetpalai.ac.in  91 9961080484
Ms. Resmi K. Mathew  Instructor  Diploma  resmi.k.mathew@sjcetpalai.ac.in  04822-239301
Mr. Ciril Sebastian  Instructor  Diploma  ciril.sebastian@sjcetpalai.ac.in  91 9037612991


Library members can access materials (such as Books, Journals, Magazines, Digital material etc.) available in the library collection. The Library reading space can accommodate nearly 200 members. The SJCET Library is fully computerized with smart ID cards and bar-code technologies. All the Library functions such as Acquisition, Circulation, Cataloguing and Serial control have been automated using integrated software.

SJCET Overview SJCET Palai SJCET Overview Software Development Center 20241125T04:28:5200:00 VISION AND MISSION VISION Developing into a worldclass, pacesetting Institute of Engineering and Technology with distinct identity and character, meeting the goals and aspirations of the society. MISSION To maintain a conducive infrastructure and learning environment for world class education. To nurture a team of dedicated, competent and research oriented faculty. To develop students with moral ethical values, for their successful career by offering variety of programmes and services. OVERVIEW The establishment of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology Palai ,was the fulfilment of a long cherished dream of providing facilities for higher education to the people of the diocese and surrounding regions. The main objective is to develop a college with a distinct identity and character, where education and training are imparted in a truly Christian environment conducive to fostering Christian values such as faith in God, love for their fellow men and devotion to the motherland. Every facility is provided in the campus to create an environment fully conducive to realizing this objective. Discipline, hard work, positive thinking, commitment to excellence and abiding faith in the Almighty are the guiding principles that propel the college to its vision of emerging as a Centre of Excellence in technical education in the country. Value systems such as ecofriendliness, quality consciousness and work ethics are also being instilled through the special work culture and campus life existing in the college. The college aims to provide an education that WORKS an education that helps the students in ensuring a challenging and satisfying career after the course. With this in view, facilities are provided in the college for personality development, yoga and meditation training, learning skills development, employability skills development, communication skills development, expert counselling services, special tuition and coaching for weaker students and sports and games facilities. The Placement and Training cell of the college renders various services such as arranging campus recruitment, providing information on career opportunities and higher study facilities within India and abroad, training for job interviews and competitive examinations, arranging practical training for students in industries, etc. Even from its very inception, St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai has established a reputation among the general public, the students and their parents and the various visiting committees as a college with a difference. Situated in a serene and picturesque location at the foothills of the High Range Mountains, the campus provides an environment conducive to learning and achieving the academic and professional aspirations of the students. We aim to achieve 100 results in examinations and a challenging and rewarding career for all our students. We are dedicated to preserve the ecosystems and live in harmony with nature. We maintain a green and absolutely clean campus. We use only wooden furniture in the college and hostels. SJCET follows a strategic planning approach to development insisting on Total Quality Management and continuous improvement at all levels. One can witness synergy at work in our campus. We have a team of wellqualified, dedicated and trained teachers and we follow the most innovative teachinglearning processes. Our laboratories and other facilities are adjudged by various visiting committees as one of the best among the engineering colleges in Kerala. SJCET is also an ISO 9001:2015 and ISO 14001: 2015 certified institution. Every talent and innovation is encouraged in the college in order to bring out the best in students. We meet practically all the national and international benchmarks stipulated for a world class engineering institution. We are committed to provide the best learning experience for students. SJCET figures in the list of topnotch selffinancing engineering colleges in Kerala as identified by the Alumni Association of NIT Calicut for information to the public. SJCET is also among the highest ranked 10 Engineering College in Kerala where percentage pass is invariably more than 80. The National Board of Accreditation NBA has granted accreditation to five B.Tech programs: Civil Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Electronics Communication Engineering, Computer Science Engineering, and Electrical Electronics Engineering, along with the Master of Computer Applications MCA program. In addition the college has been honoured with A grade by the NAAC in its first accreditation cycle. SJCET is managed by the Diocesan Technical Education Trust, Palai under the Catholic Diocese of Palai and engineering professionals in its advisory board. It has a team of renowned and highly qualified academics . The college was conferred upon with Minority status in the year 2006. OBJECTIVES, GUIDING PRINCIPLES AND SPECIAL FEATURES St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai was instituted with the objective of developing a center of professional learning with a distinct identity and character, for imparting education and training in a truly Christian environment, fostering Christian values of faith and love to God and fellowmen. The college aims to provide the kind of education that helps to achieve academic excellence and thereby ensures a challenging and satisfying career for the students on the successful completion of the programme. With this perspective, training is organized on a regular basis for the development of personality, learning and communication skills as well as employability skills. Discipline, hard work, positive thinking ,commitment to excellence and abiding faith in the Almighty are the guiding principles that propel the college to its vision of emerging as a world class institute of Engineering and Technology. The special features that characterize the institution include professional counselling services, remedial coaching for weak students and evening coaching classes for students who have failed in university examinations. The Placement and Training Cell renders various services such as arranging campus recruitments, conducting training for competitive examinations, job interviews, providing information on career opportunities and facilities for higher studies in India and abroad. The college takes an active interest in the physical fitness of the students. All facilities are provided for improving their talents in the field of sports and games. The students have made some significant achievements in this field. COLLEGE EMBLEM The college emblem, a revolving rotating green mother Earth at the Centre surrounded by three innovations, represents developments in engineering and technology over the years, viz. Fire the first major invention of mankind Gear wheel a major tool in industrial revolution and Satellite a device, which uses all the latest developments in various areas of engineering and technology. Symbolically, the light represents wisdom, knowledge and God. It spreads into the green earth providing wisdom, knowledge and spirituality to its inhabitants. Green depicts fertility and motion indicates life and progress. It shall be the concern of all SJCET students and staff to keep the mother earth green, ever moving and lighted by keeping it free of pollution and other devices of mass destruction and to promote knowledge, wisdom and spirituality.

Governing Body SJCET Palai Governing Body Software Development Center 20250113T10:13:5700:00 His Excellency Mar Joseph Kallarangattu Mar Joseph Kallarangatt is the Bishop of Palai and Patron of the College. He had his higher studies at the Pontifical Gregorian University, Rome and took doctorate in Theology. He was the Professor of Theology at Paurastya Vidyapeetham, Kottayam and in 2001 he was appointed the President of Paurastya Vidyapeetham and continued in the office till he was appointed the Bishop of Palai in 2004. Mar Joseph Kallarangatt has published more than 30 scholarly books on Theology and Oriental Liturgy. He has published large number of papers on Theological and Secular topics. At present he is serving as Chairman, CBCI Doctrinal Commission Chairman, KCBC Theology Commission and Chairman, Syro Malabar Commission for Doctrine. He had the rare privilege of participating in the Bishops Synod, held at Rome in 2012 and was nominated by Pope Benedict XVI as one among the three members of the Commission to solve theological disputes. Rev. Dr. Joseph Maleparambil Presently he is the Vicar General of the Diocese of Palai in charge of Education and Chairman of the Diocesan Technical Education Trust and Manager of all educational institutions under the Corporate. He is the former Rector of St. Ephrems Theological College, Satna, and former secretary to K.C.B.C. Rev. Prof. Dr. James John Mangalath, Director, SJCET Prof. Dr. James John Mangalathu, is a Catholic Priest belonging to the Diocese of Palai. He had his Masters Degree in History from the M S University of Baroda and PhD in IndoPortuguese History, from Pondicherry Central University. During his researches, he had the opportunity to do various courses at the Universite de Nantes in France and Universidade de Lisboa in Portugal. He has made use of various Archives and Libraries like Bibliotheque Nationale de France, Paris, Archivo Nacional de Torre do Tombo, Archivo Historico Ulramarino, Biblioteca da Ajuda, and Biblioteca Nacional de Lisboa in Portugal, British Library, London, Vatical Library etc. Besides, he has visited countries like Germany, Spain, Belgium, Switzerland, Austria, Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Sweden, Denmark, USA etc. He speaks languages like Malayalam, English, Portuguese, French, Hindi etc. He has published over 20 Research Articles in various National and International Journals. His monumental work The Portuguese and the sociocultural Changes in Kerala 14981663 has been published by Routledge, London. He has over 22 years of teaching experience at St Thomas College, Palai in Kerala. He was Professor Head at the Department of History of the College. He was Principal of St Thomas College Palai during 20182024. Besides, he has served as the National Executive member of the Xavier Board of Higher Education in India and the Regional President of Southern Kerala. He was also an executive member of Kerala Principals Council and Secretary of Association of Catholic Historians of India. At present he serves as the Joint Secretary of the Association of Catholic Historians of India and also the Private College Management Association. Mr. T.K Jose, IAS Rtd. Mr. T.K.Jose IAS Rtd. is an outstanding administrative officer who is currently serving as Chairman of The Kerala State Electricity Regulatory Commission and former Additional Chief Secretary, Government of Kerala,. He is a versatile genius with a passion for quality and perfection. His name is often heard along with Suchitwa Mission, Jal Jeevan Mission and Kudumbasree for his valuable contributions. His leadership skills has enhanced the stature and efficacy of the civil service in Kerala. Dr. Tessy Thomas Dr. Tessy Thomas, Distinguished Scientist, has taken over as Director General Aeronautical Systems w.e.f 01Jun2018. She obtained her B.Tech in Electrical Engineering from Calicut University, ME in Guided Missiles from Institute of Armament Technology now Defence Institute of Advanced Technology, Pune and PhD in Missile Guidance from Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University JNTU, Hyderabad. She obtained MBA in Operations Management from Indira Gandhi National Open University IGNOU, New Delhi. Besides her contribution as a faculty in IAT, Pune and DRDL, Hyderabad, she was the back bone in the development of Agni Missile. She was the project director of Agni 4, Agni 5 and was the director, advanced system laboratory, DRDO. She is also a recipient of many prestigious awards of DRDO. Her excellence is not limited to DRDO and missiles. She is also a recipient of Lal Bahadur Shastri National Award for excellence in Public Administration, Academics and Management 2012, Distinguished Woman Scientist Award 2016 etc. Dr. Ramesh Unnikrishnan, Director, AICTE, Regional Office, Kerala Dr Ramesh Unnikrishnan started his career as a Lecturer at Govt Engineering College Adoor in the year 1998 and later on worked with Govt Engineering College Munnar till 2012. He Joined All India Council for Technical Education, the Regulatory Body for Higher Technical Education, Govt. of India as Director in the year 2012 and was officiating the post of Western Regional Officer since 2013 controlling the states of Maharashtra, Goa Dadra NagarHaveli, Daman and Diu. During 2014 he was entrusted with the additional charge of South Western Region and South Central Region which controls the Technical institutions within Andhra Pradesh, Telengana, Karnataka, Kerala and Lakshwadeep. Presently he is the Advisor of Approval Bureau at AICTE Hqrs New Delhi. Dr. Ginu Ann George Assoc. Professor HoD, ECE Mr. K M Thomas Senior Administrative Officer, SJCET Sri. Alexander Varghese, Chief Operating Officer, UST Mr. Alexander Varghese is the Chief Operating Officer of UST. He is responsible for leading client and partner relationships in the Asia Pacific, the United Kingdom, and Israel. He further serves as Country Managing Director for India and oversees global corporate services, including real estate facilities management, and global travel. Alexander has 30 plus years of experience in the IT industry, managing overseas clients and operations for global enterprises. Before joining UST, Alexander served as the Vice President of Datec Corporation and Senior Manager at IMR Global. He is a respected thought leader and is a prominent member of various government agencies, academic institutions, and trade bodies in India. Alexander is a Charter member of TiE Kerala, a member of the CII State Council, and held an elected seat on the NASSCOM National Council for two years. He is also one of the directors of the ICT Academy of Kerala. Alexander is currently the Chairman of GTECH India and sits on the board of laptop manufacturer COCONICS. Prof. Sanjeev G Prof. Sanjeev G, Associate Professor, NSS College of Engineering Member, Syndicate, APJAKTU, has held key positions in academia over the past so many years such as Senate Member, Kerala University, Faculty Social Sciences, Calicut University, to name a few. Besides, he is wellknown as an Economics scholar with sound knowledge and erudition in both economic theory and macroeconomic policy matters. Prof. Sanjeev is also a reputed motivational speaker, personality development trainer and debator. He has also written extensively on Management and Economics in magazines journals of international repute. Besides, he frequently appears on print and electronic media and airs his views on economy and management science. He has had a rich academic career, studded with notable milestone achievements. Rev. Dr. Joseph Purayidathil Vice Principal, SJCET Palai Dr. Joseph Purayidathil is a faculty of St. Josephs Business School of SJCET, since 2017. He started his teaching career as Assistant Professor after completing his Ph.D. in Educational Leadership and Masters degree in Management from Assumption University of Thailand. He has published number of articles in reputed international journals including US China International Journal, SCHOLAR, ABAC ODI Journal, FIIB Business Review etc. and have number of presentations in national and international forums to his credit. In 2019, he has authored a book titled Ethical Leadership: A Model for Character Formation published by Lambert Academic Publishing Company. He has won the Most Impactful Paper Award 2024 by FIIB Sage Publications. His areas of academic interests are Cross Cultural Management, Educational Leadership, Organizational Development, Business Ethics etc. He is a Priest from the diocese of Palai and serves the college also as the chief warden of the hostels of SJCET, warden of St. Thomas hostel for Men, IQAC member, College Council Member, Ethics Committee member etc. He also serves Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam as the Syllabus Expert Committee Member. Dr. V. P. Devassia, Principal, SJCETSecretary Dr. V P Devassia, after completing his bachelors degree in Electrical Engineering, started his career with Hindustan Paper Corporation, Calcutta and later worked as a Design Engineer with Hindustan Machine Tools Ltd where he was responsible for the design and development of various electronic systems for Computerized Numerical Controlled machines, Flexible Turning Center, Factory automation and so on. He took his Masters Degree in Industrial Electronics and later his Doctoral Research in Signal Processing from Cochin University of Science and Technology. His passion for learning lead him to change his career to academia and today, he has over 27 years of academic experience through various responsibilities like Head of Department and Principal of engineering institutions like Model Engineering college and College of Engineering, Chengannur in Kerala. His administrative excellence has also been very well utilized by the Govt. of Kerala in entrusting him with responsibility of officer in charge of the Institute of Human Resources Development IHRD Regional center and Model Finishing School Ernakulam as well as the Additional Director of IHRD, Govt. of Kerala. Dr. Devassia later joined the services of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology in the capacity of Head, Dept. of Electronics and Communication Engineering and is currently the Principal. Amidst all his administrative responsibilities, Dr. Devassia continues academic research activities in his fields of interests including PseudoPeriodic Signal Processing, Music Signal Source Separation and Video Content Analysis. Dr. Devassia, a Chartered Engineer of the Institution of Engineers India, is professionally affiliated as FIETE, FIE I, MISTE. He has served as the Expert Committee member of many committees like the National Board of Accreditation NBA, AICTE, Board of Studies CUSAT, Governing Body member of Engineering Colleges, among many more. Dr. Devassias faith in the Almighty, unwavering attention to detail, due diligence, steadfast professionalism, zeal for higher academic pursuits, high optimism and perpetual radiance, makes him a person anyone he comes across, to take off your hat to.

LEADERSHIP SJCET Palai LEADERSHIP Software Development Center 20250306T06:53:4900:00 Mar Joseph Kallarangatt Patron Bishop, Diocese of Palai St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology is one of the institutions under the Patronage of Mar Joseph Kallarangattu, the Bishop of Palai. His Excellency is a prudent pedagogue and an educationalist par excellence. Mar Joseph Kallarangattu was the Former President Vice Chancellor, Paurastya Vidyapitham, Vadavathoor and has to his credit 35 Scholarly books on Theology and Oriental Liturgy. His Excellency is erudite in ancient East Syrian language. Besides, His Excellency is a polyglot, proficient in English, Latin, Spanish and German languages. SJCET has become one of the leading educational Institutions in Kerala, thanks to the ennobling leadership of our most revered patron. His generous support and benevolence have provided the College with immense strength to forge ahead to an even more fulfilling and resplendent future.

SJCET Redhat Academy SJCET Palai SJCET Redhat Academy Software Development Center 20240416T04:49:1200:00 SJCET PALAI have entered a MoU with Red Hat the Worlds largest Linux Company, to become a RedHat Academy. Through this academic partnership, Red Hat is providing training and certification programmes in todays most demanded globally recognized IT certifications. Red Hat Academy turns academic institutions into centers for enterpriseready talent by outfitting them with Red Hat Training. This comes in the form of handson instruction, curriculum, labs, performancebased testing, and instructor support. The Red Hat Academy curriculum is offered across Red Hats most indemand platform, middleware, and cloud technologies. COURSES OFFERED Red Hat Certified System Administrator RHCSA An IT professional who has earned the Red Hat Certified System Administrator RHCSA is able to perform the core system administration skills required in Red Hat Enterprise Linux environments. The credential is earned after successfully passing the Red Hat Certified System Administrator RHCSA Exam EX200.

Sargam SJCET Palai Annual Cultural Fest SJCET Palai HomeSargam SJCET Palai Annual Cultural Fest Sargam SJCET Palai Annual Cultural Fest SJCET is actively engaged in providing the students with an extensive range of cultural and cocurricular activities. Keeping in line with this commitment, our college organizes Annual Cultural Fest Sargam. It is a much awaited event with multiple competitions in dance, music, fashion, drama, literary and various other cultural fields and offers a plethora of opportunities to the students to showcase their talent. Extracurricular activities increase opportunities for social interaction and new relationship development. As most of those activities are grouporiented, students from completely different niches, have an opportunity to understand individuals of different passions and cultures. Interaction with individuals of various backgrounds helps the students in development of social skills. Extracurricular activities teach students a way to work for a Understanding Clenbuterol Side Effects on Sperm standard goal and this ultimately develops a way of responsibility in them. It will increase the extent of confidence and conjointly teaches them a way to cooperate and work with individuals in various conditions. They learn to face the challenges that are present in education and career. Most of the employers like to hire people who are all rounded. Sustained involvement in additional activities other than studies reflects the talent and potential of the student. Employers rummage around for these abilities in individuals. Faculty In Charge

SJCET Centre for Industrial Consultancy SJCET Palai SJCET Centre for Industrial Consultancy Software Development Center 20230929T09:15:3700:00 Incorporated in 2018 as the official technical wing, St. Josephs Centre for Industrial Consultancy is an establishment under the auspices of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology Palai, Choondacherry, Kottayam, offering various consultancy services in various fields of engineering practice.

TEDxSJCETPalai SJCET Palai TEDxSJCETPalai Software Development Center 20250218T10:37:5600:00 What is TED TED is a nonprofit organization with the spirit of promoting ideas that deserve to be scattered. Beginning with a fourday conference in California 26 years ago, TED has grown to support ideas that change the world through multiple initiatives. At TED, thinkers and filmmakers around the world are invited to give the best speech of their lives in 18 minutes. These presentations are made available for free on the TED.com website. What is TEDx Unlike TED itself, which hosts annual global conferences, TEDx events are local and communitydriven, allowing for a wide range of topics, from technology and entertainment to education, personal development, and social issues.

Sports SJCET Palai Sports Software Development Center 20240416T04:35:1600:00 THE WILL TO WIN IS IMPORTANT, BUT THE WILL TO PREPARE IS VITAL Joe Paterno For the overall development of a professional to be placed in the highest realms, an educational body is considered to play a pivotal role. A budding professional has to be physically, mentally, emotionally and intellectually top in his field. This can be realized through intensive sports programmes and excellent facilities for sports. SJCET provides such an environment which facilitates the optimal efficiency and effectiveness of the emerging dynamic engineers and managers. SJCET has attained quite a good reputation in sports activities especially among the professional institutions by winning several prestigious tournaments conducted at various levels. The competitive spirit is encouraged as the college organizes a variety of tournaments of repute. Dr. Manoj. S Assistant Director FACILITIES The department of Physical Education of the SJCET has an excellent infrastructure to meet the sporting requirements and regular physical exercise. SJCET has an indoor auditorium multipurpose Hall for shuttle badminton 4 courts, table tennis 2 Nos and Chess. The Evangeline fitness gym is one among the top class facilities constructed maintained by the Department of Physical Education of SJCET. This gym is installed with the latest gym equipment of the highest standard. In addition to this, the SJCET has the following facilities Outdoor facilities Indoor Facilities Outdoor facilities Football fields Basketball concrete court Volleyball courts Cricket Nets Badminton courts Indoor Facilities Badminton Table Tennis Chess The art of practicing yoga helps in controlling an individual mind, body and soul. It brings together physical and mental disciplines to achieve a peaceful body and mind.

NSS SJCET Palai NSS Software Development Center 20230929T08:43:0300:00 National Service Scheme NSS SJCET NSS unit is affiliated to Department of Technical Education, Government of Kerala. It was inaugurated on 27042008 by Mr K. A. Kalith programme coordinator, RIT, Pampady. The motto or watchword of the national service scheme is not me but you. This reflects the essence of democratic living and upholds the need for selfless service and appreciation of the other persons point of view and also to show consideration for fellow human beings. It underlines that the welfare of an individual is ultimately dependent on the welfare of society as a whole. Therefore, it should be the aim of the NSS to demonstrate this motto in its daytoday programme. Objectives Objectives: To Understand The Community In Which They Work. To Understand Themselves In Relation To Their Community. To Identify The Needs And Problems Of The Community And Involve Them In Problem Solving Process. Develop competence required for groupliving and sharing of responsibilities. Gain skills in mobilizing community participation.

Medicare SJCET Palai St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Pala has signed an MOU with Mar Sleeva Medicity, Palai, for exclusive Healthcare benefits for our students and employees. As per the MOU, once a week service of a doctor from Mar Sleeva Medicity, Palai is available at college campus at Medicare on a fixed day for the Staff and Students. On other days if a Staff or Student of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai requires treatment of any sort, the doctors of Mar Sleeva Medicity, Palai, will be made available. In case of an accident or any other emergency situation, the hospital authorities will give urgent medical care and necessary treatments including test, operation etc. to the patients. In case of an emergency, hospital authorities shall provide ambulance to bring the patient to the hospital if available. However, such requirements may confirmed from any of the following authorities before dispatching the ambulance to the collegehostel.

Student Counseling SJCET Palai Counselling can offer you a space to talk and think about problems and difficulties, and many people find it helpful to be able to do this with someone who is not a friend or family member. Counsellors are not the same as doctors and psychiatrists, and cannot prescribe medication. Counselling is not about giving advice, but can help you understand difficulties. Your counsellor can work with you to help you make decisions and changes that may work better for you. Counseling by experts are available in SJCET for students having problems with their studies and personal habits. Sr. Theresia Joice Varghese M.Sc. Counselling Psychology Ms. Mathew Henah Binny Counseling Psychologist On Call Dr. Sr. Prashanthi, BSc, MBBS DPM, DVDConsultant Psychiatrist Dermatologist Dr. D. George, DMSP, MApsy.Ph.D., FIACP Consultant Clinical Psychologist The methodology followed in SJCET for the student Counseling is unique and fruitful since very many years. We do have followup sessions in needed cases and it is up to the discretion of the counselor. As a result we see some noticeable changes in the behavior of our students and their confidence level and their ability to work hard has increased considerably.

Exam Controller SJCET Palai Exam Controller Software Development Center 20250219T15:10:3500:00 Controller of Examinations Dr. Nidhish Mathew Nidhiry coesjcetpalai.ac.in Deputy Controller of Examinations 1 Dr. Jeeno Mathew dcoe1sjcetpalai.ac.in Deputy Controller of Examinations 2 Mr. Sumithmon K S doce2sjcetpalai.ac.in Camp Officer Chief Superintendent of Examinations

Programme Exit Survey SJCET Palai Dear Student, SJCET Palai and its constituent Departments are striving its best to provide our students with effective degree programs within the frame work prescribed by the affiliating University APJAKTU. In this regard, as a student of this organization, your voice matters Please complete this survey, considering your overall experiences in the organization, rather than concentrating on any single aspect. Please understand, there is no right or wrong answer to this questionnaire, hence the first response that comes to mind is the best response. SJCET thanks you and wishes you success and fulfillment in all your future endeavors.

careers SJCET Palai SJCET Palai careers SJCET Palai Software Development Center 20250320T09:57:5200:00 Why work at SJCET SJCET is a high rated Engineering institution in Kerala, with wide reputation for its outstanding achievements. Our human resource policies and practice are geared towards attracting and recruiting the best and rewarding, recognizing and retaining them. These policies and practice are comparable to the best in the category. Would you like to join to our ongoing success In our work environment, all employees are valued and respected and have opportunities to develop their full potential. Join a team of dedicated professionals who truly believe in what they do You can be a Professor, Assistant Professor or an Instructor as per your qualification and AICTE norms.Candidates may fill up the format and send the same, along with relevant documents and copies of certificates, by post. Additional sheets may be used to mention more details, if any, over and above those indicated in the format.You can apply any time during the year interview will be conducted twice in a year as per requirement.You will be a part of an innovative enthusiastic team, dedicated to build a unique experience for students and staff. The shortlisted candidates will be invited for interview through mail andor telephone. Instructions All degrees qualifications must be approved by AICTE APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Distance education degrees are not accepted Candidates have to produce all original certificates at the time of interview Subject knowledge, presentation skills and the general attitude and interest will be assessed during the interview. Applications can be sent at any time of the year. Mail us The Chairman The Diocesan Technical Education Trust Palai EMail : chairmansjcetpalai.ac.in

SJCET Palai has received accreditation from the National Board of Accreditation (NBA). In 2012, the NBA accredited four of its undergraduate engineering programsâ€”Electronics and Instrumentation Engineering, Computer Science and Engineering, Electronics and Communication Engineering, and Mechanical Engineeringâ€”for a period of three years. In 2019, the NBA re-accredited the Electronics and Communication Engineering and Mechanical Engineering programs, with the accreditation valid until June 30, 2022. Recently, the college received accreditation for its MCA and Electrical and Electronics Engineering programs. The college has been awarded an 'A' grade by NAAC and attained autonomous status in July 2024.

NPTEL SJCET Palai NPTEL is the largest repository of online courses in Engineering, Science Humanities from Indias best Institutes. Students can experience class room like learning from the experts. SJCET Palai is now a Local Chapter of NPTEL managed by IIT Madras. The students of SJCET can access all the courses of NPTEL even without an Internet connection. Instructions Local Chapter for NPTEL National Programme on Technology Enhanced Learning has been established in our institution since 2016. You can do course enrolment and certification following the below listed procedure. Visit the NPTEL course portal Choose the course you want to enroll. All registrants have to use their email id while filling their profile. While filling the Profile, tick Yes in Are you a part of an NPTEL local chapter and choose our College name correctly from the dropdown menu. Complete the assessment formalities in the course portal. Benefits of doing NPTEL Course Certification from IIT. Fee wavier scheme for students based on merit cum means. Internship facility at IIT Madras for NPTEL semester toppers. MOOC Course for KTU MinorHonor courses. 50 KTU activity points for one NPTEL course. To facilitate easy access of resources, the web contents and videos are hosted in our campus which can be accessed via All students and staff members are encouraged to utilize the facility.

St. Joseph's College of Engineering and Technology, Palai (SJCET Palai) is a private engineering college located in Pala, Kerala, India. Managed by the Syro-Malabar Catholic Diocese of Pala, the college is affiliated with Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, and A.P.J. Abdul Kalam Technological University. It is approved by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and offers professional degree programs in engineering and management.

Oracle Academy SJCET Palai SJCET Palai As Oracles global, philanthropic educational program, Oracle Academy advances computing education around the world to increase knowledge, innovation, skills development, and diversity in technology fields. Oracle Academy understands and values educators as partners who are empowered to facilitate innovative student learning in and outside the classroom. We engage with thousands of educational institutions and educators in more than 120 countries, helping millions of students become college and career ready. Oracle Academy continues Oracles commitment to education, which spans 25 years and is a part of the companys legacy. Oracle Academy offers educators and their students free resources to teach and learn computer science. This includes curriculum, learning resources, Oracle cloud technologies, software, support, and professional certification resources. With Oracle Academy, students receive handson experience with the latest technologies, helping make them college and career ready in the era of cloud computing, artificial intelligence, machine learning, data science, the Internet of Things, and beyond. Oracle Academy works with public and private partners to provide the tools and training educators need to engage, inspire and prepare students to become innovators and leaders of the future. We believe everyone should have the skills and opportunities to achieve their dreams.

St. Joseph's College of Engineering and Technology was established in 2002 by the Diocesan Technical Education Trust of the Catholic Diocese of Palai. It was conferred with the status of the minority community institution by the Government of India in 2008.

Courses offered

Undergraduate courses
B.Tech. in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science
B.Tech. in Civil Engineering
B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering
B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering (Cyber Security)
B.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering (Artificial Intelligence)
B.Tech. in Electrical and Electronics Engineering
B.Tech. in Electronics and Communications Engineering
B.Tech. in Electronics and Computer Engineering
B.Tech. in Mechanical Engineering

Post graduate courses
M.Tech. in Advanced Manufacturing & Production Management
M.Tech. in VLSI & Embedded Systems
M.Tech. in Computer Science and Engineering
M.Tech. in Advanced Communication & Information Systems
M.Tech. in Structural Engineering & Construction Management
Master of Business Administration
Master of Computer Applications
Integrated - Master of Computer Applications

Student hostels
The students are provided accommodation within the campus itself. The hostels in the campus are:[8]
St. Thomas Hostel (for men)
St. Alphonsa Hostel (for men)
St. Augustine's Hostel (for women)
St. Mary's Hostel (for men)

College canteen
Main Campus canteen
Main Campus canteen situated at the main entrance of the college.
Madonna Cafeteria
Madonna Cafeteria situated in front main central Campus Library.
Central canteen
In addition to the main canteen, a new central canteen has been constructed at the newly constructed DB4.

Transportation
The college has 24 buses, one van and one car for the use of students and staff.
Buses ply from the college through Bharananganam, Erattupetta, Poonjar, Edamattom, Paika, Pinnakanad, Thidanad, Poovathode, Pala, Ettumanoor, Kuraavilangad, Kuruppanthara, Kaduthuruthy, Muttuchira, Ramapuram, Koothattukulam, Thodupuzha, Pravithanam [12]

phdprogramme SJCET Palai Ph.D. PhD Offered by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University KTU offers research programmes in various disciplines of Engineering, Technology, Architecture, Basic Sciences and Mathematics, Management and allied Interdisciplinary areas leading to the award of the Degree of Doctor of Philosophy. Categories of Admission There shall be THREE categories of Ph.D. admission as given below: Full time scholars of the University with or without fellowship. Part time scholars who are faculty members of the University Departments or Affiliated College who will be admitted to pursue research towards Ph.D. degree while working. External parttime scholars who work in research organisations or RD centres recognized by APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University for the purpose of external registration. ELIGIBILITY FOR ADMISSION Candidates with Masters degree in EngineeringTechnology, Architecture or a Masters degree by research in EngineeringTechnology with a minimum CGPA of 6.5 are eligible for admission to the Ph.D. program with the stipulation that admission to the Masters program should have been based on a valid GATE score. SCST candidates and differently abled persons are eligible for admission with a minimum CGPA of 5.5 at Masters level to the Ph.D. program . Other conditions remain same as those for the general category candidates. The following are exempted from the requirement of GATE or UGCCSIR NET or CATJMETXATMATATMAGATEUGC for the purpose of registering for Ph.D. : Candidates with Masters degree in EngineeringTechnology Architecture and having THREE years of teaching experience in AICTE approved colleges or NBA accredited departments. Those with above mentioned educational qualifications and having minimum THREE years experience in a reputed industry as assessed by the University. Candidates who have fellowshipscholarship support from any Government Agency. APPROVED GUIDES Department of Mechanical Engineering Department of Electronics Communication Engineering Department of Computer Science and Engineering Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Master of Computer Applications

MBA facilities
Dr. Pious Thomas Professor & Head MBA Email:hodmba@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Rev. Dr. Joseph Purayidathil Assistant Professor MM, Ph.D. joseph.purayidathil@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Dr. Suma Mathew Associate Professor MBA Email: suma.mathew@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Dr. Soumya Varghese Associate Professor MBA Email: soumya@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Dr. Rosin C. Jacob Assistant Professor MBA Email: rosin@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof. Meera Kuncheria Assistant Professor MBA Email: meera@sjcetpalai.ac.in
Prof. Elma Joseph Assistant Professor MBA Email: elma@sjcetpalai.ac.in

Department of Computer Science and Engineering SJCET Palai Department of Computer Science and Engineering. Computer Science Empowers Students to Create the World of Tomorrow Satya Nadella The Department of Computer Science and Engineering was established in the year 2002 and since its inception, the department has progressed with a vision and a strong commitment in developing competent Engineers with uncompromising standards of excellence in training, both through class room sessions and hands on sessions. The Department is equipped with competent and dedicated faculty members who are expertise in the current technologies. The department strives for uplifting the skill of the students to bring out innovative ideas from them with professionalism and ethical values. The department offers BTech accredited by NBA, MTech and PhD programmes. The department is a recognized research centre of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, Thiruvananthapuram. The department has been maintaining an active interaction with the professional bodies like Computer Society of India and IEEE CS. VISION MISSION PEO PSO COPO Mapping PG POs PG PSOs VISION To evolve as a school of computing with globally reputed centres of excellence and serve the changing needs of the industry and society. MISSION The department is committed in bringing out career oriented graduates who are industry ready through innovative practices of teaching and learning process To nurture professional approach, leadership qualities and moral values to the graduates by organizing various programs periodically To acquire selfsustainability and serve the society through research and consultancy PEO PEO1: The graduates will have a successful career in industries associated with Computer Science and Engineering or as entrepreneurs. PEO2: The graduates will have the ability and attitude to adapt to emerging technological changes. PEO3: The graduates will be able to pursue higher education and research. PSO After Successful Completion of the programme, the graduates will be able to PSO 1: Analyze, design and develop computing solutions by applying foundational concepts of Computer Science and Engineering. PSO 2: Apply software engineering principles and practices for developing quality software for scientific and business applications. PSO 3: Adapt to emerging Information and Communication Technologies by providing innovative ideas and solutions to novel problems. COPO Mapping PG POs PO1: An ability to independently carry out researchinvestigation and development work in engineering and allied streams PO2: An ability to communicate effectively, write and present technical reports on complex engineering activities by interacting with the engineering fraternity and with society at large. PO3: An ability to demonstrate a degree of mastery over the area as per the specialization of the program. The mastery should be at a level higher than the requirements in the appropriate bachelor program PO4: An ability to apply stream knowledge to design or develop solutions for real world problems by following the standards PO5: An ability to identify, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources and stateoftheart tool to model, analyse and solve practical engineering problems. PO6: An ability to engage in lifelong learning for the design and development related to the stream related problems taking into consideration sustainability, societal, ethical and environmental aspects PO7: An ability to develop cognitive load management skills related to project management and finance which focus on Entrepreneurship and Industry relevance. PG PSOs After Successful Completion of the programme, the graduates will be able to PSO1: Conduct research and development in computer science independently, demonstrating innovative thinking and problemsolving skills. PSO2: Develop wellstructured technical reports and presentations to effectively communicate concepts and research findings. PSO3: Demonstrate the ability to critically analyze existing research in the field of computer science, identify gaps, and propose novel solutions, contributing to the advancement of knowledge. Find us on PROGRAMS WE OFFER An Engineering program which seamlessly articulates the concepts from basic science to technology with relevant practice through lab and projects for building the problem solving skills, keeping industry requirements in place. Students will develop competence in areas like Programming, Database Management Systems, Networks and Security, Operating Systems, Cloud Computing etc. To enable the students to keep pace with changing technological advances, the university has industrial tieups with Oracle and SAP. Studying these courses as a part of the curriculum would provide a WILD CARD entry to industry. M.Tech. Computer Science and Engineering Learners are matured in a specific area of specialization by extending their prior knowhow through meticulous set of advanced courses with a dissertation to showcase their research potential. The focus for thesis is to solve an industry centric problem. Ph.D. Computer Science and Engineering The Ph.D. in Computer Science and Engineering is a research degree which culminates in a unique dissertation that demonstrates original and creative research. The program has been designed to help the research scholars to gain an indepth understanding of a specialized subject related to computer science. This would allow them to predict developments and make contributions in area of expertise. The research scholars pursuing the Ph.D.degree are provided with an environment and facilities that help to develop analytic and research skills to define the research problems, to study advanced knowledge base to discover innovative solutions available till date. They are also provided with opportunities to practice consultation so as to facilitate innovative change in organizations, communities, and society. INITIATIVES BEYOND THE CLASS ROOM NPTEL LOCAL CHAPTER NPTEL is the largest repository of online courses in Engineering, Science Humanities from Indias best Institutes. Students can experience class room like learning from the experts. SJCET Palai is now a Local Chapter of NPTEL. The students of SJCET can access all the courses of NPTEL even without an Internet connection. More than 350 courses on Engineering, Science Technology is available locally at SJCET Palai Server. The students can apply for scholarships provided by companies like Aricent. The students who pass the examination are also eligible for a certificate from reputed IITs. More LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Learning Management System LMS is designed to complement classroom instruction and engage students in online activities , assignments and discussions, examinations, wikies that allow for deeper participation inside and outside the classroom. LMS 2.0 LMS 1.0 SPOKEN TUTORIAL REMOTE CENTER SJCET Palai is the resource center for promoting Spoken Tutorial Project IIT Bombay, an initiative of National Mission through ICT, MHRD, Govt. of India.SJCET Palai is a GitHub Campus Get ready to explore the worlds leading software development platform Being one of the ten official GitHub Campus program partner Colleges in Kerala, SJCET has strengthened its hightech programming curriculum. Our partnership with GitHub now enables the students to get free access to the GitHub Student Developer Pack. This streamlines the move from theoretical into practical skills, as well as gives realworld tools needed in the tech trade. UiPath Academic Alliance Collaboration with UiPath, a leading Robotic Process Automation vendor. This Collaboration empowers students with automation skills on campus through specially designed Robotic Process Automation RPA curricula, the UiPath software platform, supporting forums, and collaboration tools. Collaboration with Oracle Academy Oracle Academy provides educational institutions with the resources they need to help educators develop core computing knowledge and skills aligned to industry standards and for using current technologiesso they can teach students the skills they need to succeed. The program offers institutions and educators access to a wide range of teaching and educational resources, including curriculum, classroom learning resources, software, cloud technology, practice environments, and much more. PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS COMPUTER SOCIETY OF INDIA Computer Society of India is the first and largest body of computer professionals in India. It was started on 6 March 1965 by a few computer professionals and has now grown to be the national body representing computer professionals. It has 72 chapters across India, 511 student branches, and 100,000 members IEEE COMPUTER SOCIETY The IEEE Computer Society is a professional society of IEEE. Its purpose and scope is to advance the theory, practice, and application of computer and information processing science and technology and the professional standing of its members.

Department of Civil Engineering SJCET Palai Department of Civil Engineering Software Development Center 20240412T05:41:2900:00 BUILDING THE FUTURE ON A FOUNDATION OF EXCELLENCE Civil Engineering, in a simple sense is the application of planning, designing, constructing, maintaining, and operating infrastructures while protecting the public and environmental health, as well as improving existing infrastructures that have been neglected. Civil Engineers are trained in the areas of Surveying, Structural Analysis and Design, Geotechnical Engineering, Transportation Engineering and Environmental Engineering. A Civil Engineering graduate can become a Consulting Civil Engineer, Project Engineer, Project Manager, Contract Engineer, Contract Manager, Planning Engineer, Site Engineer, Construction Manager, Quantity Surveyor, Cost Engineer, Quality Assurance Quality Control Engineer, Quality Assurance Quality Control Manager and many more. Opportunities for higher studies are also available in allied disciplines such as Coastal and Ocean Engineering, Hydraulics Engineering, Remote Sensing, Irrigation Engineering, Transportation Engineering, Structural Engineering and Geodetic Engineering. Vision Mission PEO PSO COPO Mapping PG PO PG PSO PG PEO Vision To develop into a globally reputed center of excellence in the field of Civil Engineering for imparting knowledge and technical skills suiting the needs of the society with distinct identity and character in teaching, research and consultancy. Mission To follow Teaching Learning process and conducive infrastructure with the support of qualified and committed faculty in Civil Engineering Programs. To establish a team of dedicated faculty in academic pace for collaborating with academia and community to serve local and state enterprises. To make the students selflearners and socially committed engineers for individual and collective accomplishments and also for nurturing moral and ethical values for their successful careers PEO Program Educational Objectives PEO PEO1. Have strong design and analysis skills in the theoretical and practical domains of Civil Engineering. PEO2. Become leading professionals, as individuals, as well as team members, in a wide range of Civil Engineering and related fields. PEO3. Exhibit ethical values and a strong spirit of social commitment to accelerate social development. PSO Program Specific Outcomes PSO PSO 1: To practice Civil Engineering within industry, government and private practice, working toward sustainable solutions in a wide array of technical specialties including construction, environmental, geotechnical, structural, transportation and water resources PSO2: To grow professionally in their careers through continued development of technical, management, communication skills and to achieve their professional aims ethically and with cultural competency COPO Mapping PG PO PO1 An ability to independently carry out researchinvestigation and development work in engineering and allied streams. PO2 An ability to communicate effectively, write and present technical reports on complex engineering activities by interacting with the engineering fraternity and with society at large. PO3 An ability to demonstrate a degree of mastery over the area as per the specialization of the program. The mastery should be at a level higher than the requirements in the appropriate bachelor program. PO4 An ability to apply stream knowledge to design or develop solutions for real world problems by following the standards. PO5 An ability to identify, select and apply appropriate techniques, resources, and stateoftheart tool to model, analyze and solve practical engineering problems. PO6 An ability to engage in lifelong learning for the design and development related to the stream related problems taking into consideration sustainability, societal, ethical, and environmental aspects. PO7 An ability to develop cognitive load management skills related to project management and finance which focus on Entrepreneurship and Industry relevance. PG PSO PSO1: To enable students to modify and upgrade present computing techniques to meet the engineering challenges in Structural Engineering and Constructional Management. PSO2: To bring awareness to the students to have commitment in socio economic progress of the country. PG PEO PEO1: Demonstrate competency to lead and discharge their duties in an independent or team environment in Structural Engineering and Construction Management and related fields. PEO2: Exhibit skills for lifelong learning in research or other specific career programmes through constant knowledge upgradation. PEO3: Apply fundamental and advanced knowledge in Structural Engineering and Construction Management to address challenging problems in Civil Engineering and provides sustainable solution using modern tools. COURSES WE OFFER B.Tech. Civil Engineering CE An Engineering program which articulates the concepts from basic science to technology through lab practice and projects to gain knowledge in areas like Structural, Environmental Highway Engineering, Construction Management etc which are in sync with industry requirements. COURSESDURATIONSYLLABUS B.Tech in Civil EngineeringKTU 4 Years syllabus M.Tech in Structural Engineering and Construction ManagementKTU 2 Years syllabus M.Tech. Structural Engineering and Construction Management Learners are matured in a specific area of specialization by extending their prior know how through meticulous set of advanced courses with a dissertation to showcase their research potential. The focus for thesis is to solve an industry centric problem. INITIATIVES BEYOND THE CLASS ROOM The Civil Engineering division of St. Josephs Centre for Industrial Consultancy believe in providing valueadded construction services to our customers by creating a successful partnership with them throughout the construction process. Our highly qualified, theoretically equipped as well as practically experienced staff uphold the idea of creating the most economical and safest design by using the most advanced computer packages, rather than using the traditional thumb rule design methodology. CIVIL ENGINEERING ASSOSIATION CEA was formed with the primary objective of exposing budding civil engineers of SJCET to the challenges of profession. The association promotes the talents of students in extra and cocurricular activities and keeps students and staff aware of the latest information through technical talks and seminars. The association was inaugurated by Er. P. M. Chacko, former president of Institution of Engineers India IEI on 28th September 2011. OUR CONSULTANCY SERVICES Consultancy Services Architectural plan for approval from local governing body Stuctural designs of residential, commercial and high rise buildings Estimation, costing and valuation Landslide prediction and slope stabilization Sewage and water treatment plants design Transportation systems design Tourism project preparation Project management Plot area measurement and settingout using Total Station Plot area measurement and settingout using Total Station Material Quality Tests Concrete compressive strength Steel tensile strength Concrete mix design Cement quality tests Aggregate fine and coarse gradation and quality tests Paving tile strength and abrasion tests Bitumen extraction tests BM and BC mix design Drinking water quality test Soil property and subgrade CBR tests NDT tests for concrete PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS Indian Concrete Institute The Department of Civil Engineering is a lifetime organizational member L.M. No. 10030 of Indian Concrete Institute, Chennai. Indian Concrete Institute is one of the leading professional bodies in India, catering to the professional needs of individuals and organizations involved in Concrete. Being a nonprofit Organisation, it is dedicated to the cause of disseminating Knowledge on Concrete, of Promoting Concrete Technology and Construction and of addressing the Research Needs of Concrete. The department would now get updated on the latest technology and practices in Concrete Industry. The department will have a unique opportunity to listen to and to interact with concrete technology experts from within the country and abroad. This will let us collaborate with national and international agencies in creating a better understanding of concrete construction technology. ICI promotes the growth of concrete construction and its subspecializations giving an opportunity to the members to participate in ICI conducted competitions like ICI FEST, which is a zonal meet of Students Chapters. Apart from these, there are various other benefits such as access to ICI Archives which is a collection of valuable Technical Papers, access to the ICI Reference Library, and most importantly, an opportunity to grow professionally. DEPARTMENT LEVEL COMMITTEES DEPARTMENT ADVISORY COMMITTEE NAMEDESIGNATION Dr. V P Devassia Principal, SJCET Dr. Ance Mathew HOD, Civil Engineering Dept. Mr. Jiju Joseph MD, Green Tourism, Govt. of Kerala Rev. Fr. Thomas Njavallil Lab. Manager, SJCET, Palai Dr. K. J. George Professor of Civil Engineering Fr. Dr. Bennet Kuriakose Associate Professor, Civil Engineering Dept. Mrs. Asha Alice Kulavattom Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering Dept. Prof. Austin T Sabu Alumni Representative Mrs. Elizabeth Sebastian Parent of Civil Engineering Student Mr. Joby George Civil Engineering Dept. PROGRAM ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE NAMEDESIGNATION Dr. Ance Mathew HOD, Civil Engineering Dept. Fr. Dr. Bennet Kuriakose Associate Professor, Civil Engineering Dept. Mrs. Asha Alice Kulavattom Assistant Professor, Civil Engineering Dept. OUR STRENGTH FACILITIES CAD LAB ENVIRONMENT LAB DRAWING LAB TRANSPORTATION AND CONCRETE LAB GEO TECHNICAL LAB SURVEY LAB TOTAL STATION PLACEMENTS 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 2023 2022 2021 2020 2019 ACHIEVEMENTS Prof. Ance Mathew, HOD, Department of Civil Engineeringhas received a patent titled: The influence of different treatments applied to flax fibres on different properties of mortar reinforced by these fibres. The discovery deals with the addition of treated flax fibres to improve the rheological and mechanical properties of mortar. She invented three treatment solutions for flax fibre ,viz.:atmospheric plasma, mineral cementslag coating and linseed oil coating. Gold Prize Winners Basil Philip Issac, Amal Nelson, Akhila Mariya and Rohin Kurien mentored by Fr. Dr. Bennet Kuriakose won the Gold Prize with cash award of Rs 25000 in the TECH FEST 2021 organised by Kerala State Council for Science, Technology and Environment KSCSTE. This project weighs on developing a novel device to monitor water levels in paddy fields at various times and alerting farmers using IoT system to schedule their crop calendar with proper irrigation practices. Adoption of realtime field monitoring using LoR a technology enables farmers to know the conditions of the field beforehand and take necessary steps to increase or decrease water levels accordingly. Dr. K.J.George, Professor, Department of Civil Engineering, Harithakeralam College Coordinator SJCET Palai received letter of appreciation from Haritha Keralam Mission, Govt. of Kerala for our commendable initiatives in waste management, food safety, protection of water resources and energy conservation Prof. Ance Mathew, HOD, Department of CE, published a paper entitled Experimental investigation and prediction on the effects of glass and bamboo fibres as key mixture parameters in reinforced concrete using support vector regression in the journal Structural Concrete with an impact factor of 3.13 Rev. Fr. Dr. Bennet Kuriakose, Associate Professor, Dept. of CE has got the approval for a financial support of Rs 1,00,000 from Agency for NonConventional Energy Rural Technology ANERT for the Project on Experimental Investigations on Energy Efficient Buildings using Phase Change Materials in Tropical Climate. Rev. Fr. Dr. Bennet Kuriakose, Associate Professor, Dept. of CE was appointed the Technical Consultant for the Implementation of CARE HOME Projects 2018 in collaboration with the Government Bodies. Ranked 8 th in KTU Department of Civil Engineering Ranked 8 th in KTU Semester V results 2018 Woman innovation award This is an innovative proposal put forward for foundations on low lying areas of Kerala like Kuttanad, and this will be a economically viable alternative for pile foundation Award by SCMS group of institutions. The 10 Pointer Juby Biju of S2 CE, secured O grade in all subjects with SGPA 10 in the Semester I B.Tech Degree University Examination December 2018 CONSULTANCY PROJECTS Year 2020 Rehabilitation of Residential Building, Ramapuram. Completed The residential building was previously built up to the ground level from the cellar with poor workmanship and using concrete of low quality. Rehabilitation scheme was proposed and structural details for ground and first floors were given by CE department. Architectural and Structural Details of Mercantile Building, Bharananganam, Kottayam. Completed Architectural and structural design of a onestoryed mercantile building was performed. Extension and Modification of St. Marys Church, Vettimukal, Kottayam. Completed. Structural design of steel truss and hexagonal towers were carried out. The architectural design was changed after the foundations been cast. Structural design for the new architectural features was carried out. Architectural and Structural Design for Modification of St. George Simhasana Church, Thiruvalla, Kottayam. Completed The new church building was innovatively designed and planned so as to be constructed outside the existing one, keeping the latter intact. Steel skeleton structure was raised outside the columns were CFST as bracings would obstruct the working condition of old church, walls were constructed, old church was demolished inside and the new church is being finished. Year 2021 Reconstruction of NNCJMLP School, Kumarakom, Kottayam. Ongoing Detailed structural design of pile foundation and two stories was performed. Extension of Residential and Commercial Building, Thottakkad, Kottayam. Ongoing Extension of three stories to a building built 20 years back and was in arbitration. The detailed health of the existing building was assessed, modifications were suggested and structural details of the other three stories were given. A steelconcrete profiled deck slab was also designed within the building as an extension to previously built floor, which is designed to be framed from the existing structure. Structural Design of Retaining Wall at Paika, Kottayam Execution pending. Structural design of a 6 m high retaining wall was carried out. Two options were provided, one with random rubble masonry and second an RCC cantilever retaining wall. Execution of this project is pending due to arbitration. Structural Design of Commercial Building, Vaikom, Kottayam. Ongoing. Design of grid foundation for the very weak soil sublayer at the site was performed. Detailed structural details of the ground and first floors were also given. Structural Design of Residential Building, Thrissur Completed. Design of foundation for residential building is performed the ground floor is at different levels. The plinth beam had to be arranged to accommodate the difference in levels. Valuation of a Residential Building, Karinkunnam, Kottayam. Completed. Valuation of the building was performed for an old residential building Structural Design of Residential Building, Kuruppumthara, Kottayam. Completed. Structural Design of Residential Building, Kumaramangalam, Idukki. Completed Feature of this building is 4 m long cantilever carporch. Retaining Wall for Nuzzo School, Thiruvananthapuram. Completed. Renovation of a Commercial Building, Paika, Kottayam. Execution Pending SteelConcrete profiled composite deck slab was proposed for the building. Structural Design of Residential Building, Thiruvanchoor, Kottayam. Ongoing. Design of Pile Foundation for Residential Building, Kuruppamthara, Kottayam. Ongoing Pile foundation was provided with a novel technique where no pile cap is provided. Structural Design of Commercial Building at Poonjar, Kottayam. Ongoing Hard stratum was available only at 4 m depth from existing ground level. Other types of foundations were not feasible. Conventional footings are provided and detailed structural design for the three stories was given. Structural Design of Hospital Building, Edayazham, Kottayam. Execution Pending. Original client of the project is KIIFB, Govt. of Kerala. The foundation was provided with grid foundation which is a cost effective one for weak soils. Structural design was provided for the ground floor. Soil Investigation and Traffic Study for Regulator cum Bridge across Meenachil River at Koottanalkadavu, Kottayam. Completed Client of this project is Dept. of Irrigation, Govt. of Kerala. Detailed investigation of the soil was performed using CBR tests. Traffic survey and home survey was performed for assessing the feasibility and suitability of a bridging system across the river at the specific location. Year 2022 Structural Design of Residential Building at Thodupuzha, Idukki ongoing The challenging part of this project is the 3.5 m cantilever slab, to be supported without any visible beams. Moreover, the architect has planned the living area of the building to be looking like a floating structure on water. Structural Design of Retaining wall at Mutholy, Kottayam. Execution pending The retaining wall was designed for a height of 4.5 m for accommodating different levels of the plot. Stabilisation of Failed Slope, Peruvanthanam, Idukki Execution pending The slope failed during 2021 landslides and the house is at risk. The slope in total has a height of 6.5 m. As conventional soil nailing is not costeffective and feasible for the rural area, an innovative soil nailing cum dry rubble masonry system is proposed, which can be executed by local workmanship. The total cost of the project is estimated to be 1.5 Lakh, which is extremely cost effective. Construction of School Building to MCV HSS Arpookara: Check For Reinforcements and Anchorages, Arpookkara, Kottayam. Completed The objective of the study was to check the reinforcements and lap lengths provided at the site by rigourous numerical analysis and based on standards of practice. The client is KIIFB, Govt. of Kerala and we worked for the contractor. Structural Design and Detailed Estimate of Residential Building at Palai, Kottayam. Execution pending Grid foundation is provided owing to the weak soil. The land has to be filled and the existing ground level is planning to be raised. Design was performed taking all these into consideration. Structural Design of Residential Building at Kuruppumthara, Kottayam Ongoing. Structural Design of Residential Building at Kattappana, Idukki Ongoing. Structural Design of Residential Building at Palai, Kottayam. Design work ongoing This two storey framed building consist of very few numbers of irregularly placed columns many parts of the building is designed to be cantilevered. Structural Design of a Cartable Bridge at Njeezhoor, Kottayam. Design work ongoing A steelconcrete composite profiled deck is proposed which is planned to be supported on two steel girders connecting the two banks of the small stream. ACTIVITIES Mapathon Kerala OSM Mapping Department of Civil Engineering, St.Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai is entrusted with the mapping of Palai Muncipality 26 Muncipal wards so that it may be used by the Government agencies in case of any emergency situation like floods or any of such kind. The Mapathon Project of Palai Municipality is led by the SPoC Mr. Austin T Sabu, Asst. Prof, Dept. of CE and other members include Ms. Dalmiya Rajan, Asst. Prof, Dept. of CE along with a student group. The final year student group members are Sijith Chandran, Krishnapriya, Melinda Lorence Nithya Prasannan S7,CE. Kootickal Site vist In connection with the landslide at Kootickal, Dept.of Civil Engineering assessed the structural competency of residential buildings in the area. The project was undertaken by the Civil Engineering Department in association with Civil Engineering Association and Center for Industrial Consultancy. The site visit team consisted of faculty members and a group of final year students. The faculty members accompanied were Prof. Dr.K.J.George, Associate Prof. Fr. Dr. Bennet Kuriakose, Asst.Prof Mr. Manish Jose, Asst.Prof Mr.Austin T Sabu, Lab instructors Mr. Joby George and Mr. George K Thomas. REBUILD KERALA Government of Kerala established Rebuild Kerala Initiative RKI to bring about a perceptible change in the lives and livelihoods of the people of Kerala after the state had been devastated by two major floods in 2018 and 2019. RKI presents a unique approach in rebuilding the state. One of the major components of this Initiative is the renovation of public roads maintained by the Local Self Govt Department LSGD. The works related to field investigation for preparation of DPR were delegated to SJCET, Palai. SJCET Palai has a Tier II Collaboration with RKI G.O.Rt.No.21792020LSGD, Dated:20.2.2020 and Department of Civil Engineering. SJCET Palai ensures the Quality Assurance at the site by conducting random checks and suggests possible improvements where ever required. Sl. NoName of RoadGP District 1 PuthedannoorThodu Foot Bridges Arakkulam, Idukki 2 Elappally Chellikal Road Arakkulam, Idukki 3 Elappally Thottambhagam Road Arakkulam, Idukki 4 Aasharam Pottanpady Road Arakkulam, Idukki 5 Idinjamala Companypadi Road Erattayar, Idukki 6 Nalumukku Tunnel Road Erattayar, Idukki 7 BalagramAnyarthulu Pampadumpara, Idukki 8 Kattekkanam Chelamoodu Road Karunapuram, Idukki 9 PazhayaKochira Road Vandenmedu, Idukki 10 Perikkankaval Kollamkulambadi Karilkavala Road Vathikudi, Idukki 11 Kurisupallipadi Thannikandam Kumbiluvellipadi Painavu Road Vazhathoppu, Idukki 12 Vimalagiri Enikkuthu Road Mariapuram, Idukki 13 Anicadu Pravidakunnu Road Vazhakulam, Ernakulam 14 Factorypadi Karinthuruvi Road Upputhara, Idukki 15 Panachikuzhi Road Rajakkadu, Idukki 16 Sooryakanthikavala Pazhaya Post Office Road Upputhara, Idukki REBUILD KERALA Road Strength studies at Idukki District under the Rebuild Kerala Initiative Works entrusted by LSGD, Government of Kerala as part of post Flood and Disaster Investigation works. Concrete Mix Design and Concrete Cube Strength Competition 2019 by ICI Kerala Kochi Centre Manimala Rejuvanation work Field visit was conducted by S3 M.Tech. students under the supervision of Dr. K J George Professor, Jose James Assistant Professor, Dalmiya Rajan Assistant Professor, Joby George and Ligi Simon for the survey as part of Manimala River Rejuvanation in Association with Kerala State Irrigation Department IDRB. Survey includes identifying pollution in stretches of river and water sampling. Data is interpreted in preparing a DPR for pollution abatement of Manimala river in Kalloopara Thondra Stretch EXPERT TALKS AND SESSIONS Prof. P.V. Varkey, professor serving at SJCET Palai took an elaborate class for the Civil Engineering students of SJCET on 18092021 from 10am to 1pm. Prof.P. V Varkey has outlined the various sources of energy, the cost of generation of each type of energy and management of the source and the importance of that to Civil Engineers. Tapping the potential of solar energy was also demonstrated by him and the live examples from the campus was also given. He further explained the energy saving peculiarities at Nedumbassery Airport and utilization of solar power there. The Civil Engineering applications for the foundation and structural aspects of the solar generation structures were also highlighted. The talk was very useful to the budding Civil Engineers. Er.D. Biju, Chief Engineer, Irrigation, Trivandrum on 06122020, delivered a talk on the necessity of river rejuvenation in Kerala. He has elaborated this on the count of national green tribunal order to rejuvenate 21 rivers in Kerala. The need for assessment of water quality of these rivers and pollution abatement of the rivers and the methods for ensuring eflow in the rivers were discussed in detail. The various structures in Kerala rivers were also demonstrated. Chief Engineer had discussed in detail the chance for associating SJCET with the Pollution abatement study of Manimala river spanning over Idukki, Kottayam, Pathanamthitta and Alleppey Districts of Kerala. SJCET Civil Engineering department was thus entrusted with the study to be completed before February 2021. A presentation on the concept of watershed and river basin management with special reference to the manimala river was carried out on 04012021 by Er.S. Deepa, Assistant Executive Engineer, Irrigation Department, Government of Kerala. The importance of watershed type planning required for water resource planning was explained in a systematic manner to the students and staff of civil engineering department Further , the criterion and approach to be followed for the pollution abatement planning of manimala river was explained. The survey works that can be carried out in Manimala river for the preparation of a detailed project report was also explained. The students got a good idea regarding the procedure to be followed in such case studies and field executions. An expert speech on water resource planning in Kerala was done by Er.R. Priyesh, Director, Irrigation design and research board, Trivandrum, Government of Kerala on 06122021.The planning aspects to meet the rquirements of future needs for the 44 rivers in Kerala was explained and was very much informative for the budding engineers and faculty members present. The director explained the future plans of the water resources department, with regard to water conservation, water storage and desiltation of rivers. Additionally, the structural design aspects of some of the important water resource structures were also discussed. An overview of the design of irrigation and water storage structures was obtained by the students and faculty. An expert talk was given by Mr. P. Ramesh, District Coordinator of Harithakeralam a government of Kerala urging for the improvement of the various life activities of the common people by way of clean and green initiatives. The idea and practicing of the same was explained to the students of Civil engineering by a special talk on 05012021 followed by demonstration and class on 26022021. The detailed classes and demonstrations paved way for understanding the importance of keeping the areas clean, water conservation measures and the bad effects of burning plastic items. The idea of reducing, recycling and recovering the water was also given to the students. The Resource Person Dr.Kishore Pankan PhD, MBA, A.M.ASCE, Managing Director, Habilete Learning Solutions Pvt. Ltd, led a class on ASCE student Chapter for seventh semester students on 01st November 2021. The session was handled by the speaker explaining the detailed review on ASCE activities. Civil Engineering Association CEA of Department of Civil Engineering, SJCET Palai organized a webinar on Building Information Modeling with Mr. Madhav Sreekumar Technical Consultant in Bexel India Consulting and Ms. Lakshmi N Suresh Marketing and Strategy Manager in Bexel India Consulting as subject experts on 13th November 2021 at 1:30 pm, for the students of The Civil Engineering Department Civil Engineering Association CEA of Department of Civil Engineering, SJCET Palai organised a seminar on Professional Ethics for seventh semester students on 11th November 2021.The resource person was Mr. Babu Sankar, Assistant Professor, Department of Mechanical Engineerig, SJCET Palai. Civil Engineering Association CEA of Department of Civil Engineering, SJCET Palai organised a fire and safety awareness class with Demonstration of the working of Fire Fighting Equipments on 11th November 2021 for seventh semester students. The resource person Mr. Jameskutty Zacharias, Department of Mechanical Engineering, SJCET Palai demonstrated the working of the firefighting equipment and hands on sessions were given to the students. A practical session on Total station was organised for the final year B. Tech students on 26th October 2021 in order to enhance their practical skills in modern surveying equipment. The class was taken by Mr. Joby George, Survey Lab Instructor. . A practical session on Bitumen extraction was organised for fifth semester B. Tech students on 3rd December 2021 at Transportation Engineering Lab, Department of Civil Engineering. The class was taken by Ms. Ligi Simon, Labinstructor. Department of Civil Engineering in association with CEA, SJCET Palai organised a Webinar on Lifestyle Diseases guided by Dr. Divya Roy MBBS, DNB Family Medicine for Second and Third year Civil Engineering students on 26th November 2021 at 2:30 pm. Department of Civil Engineering, in association with CEA, SJCET Palai organised a Webinar on Precast Building Systems guided by Er. Mathew Jose Jin Asst. Engineer, Metro IC, LT Constructions, Chennai for Final year Civil Engineering students on 23rd April 2021at 10.00am. Department of Civil Engineering, SJCET Palai, in association with DH Academy organised a webinar guided by Er. Shyju Nair CEO, DH Academy on the topic Journey through Concrete on May 26th 2021 at 11.30am Expert Talk on Tips for Healthy Life Style by Dr. Gibi K George Casualty Doctor, Doctors Speciality Hospital, Kalathipady, Kottayam on 02122020. Expert Talk on Preparation of Feasibility and DPR in context of Highway and Urban Road Development by Mr. Balakrishnan M. Former Head International Operations Road Projects, LT Infrastructure Engineering Limited, Chennai on 09122020. DEPARTMENT PUBLICATIONS

MCAHome SJCET Palai MCAHome St. Josephs college of Engineering Technology, SJCET, has always been in the forefront with a wide spectrum of distinct features and facilities. The institution is a leader in the academia and its culture has set a benchmark in the region of quality in education, infrastructure facilities, student welfare, ecofriendliness and social commitments. Since its initiation in the year 2009, the department of Computer Applications holds profound pride to remain as an integral and significant part of SJCET. We reflect and uphold the picturesque culture of the institution. Here, we always encourage the freedom to think and express creatively Students are provided with platforms to hone their technical and cultural talents. We support them in their curricular and extracurricular accomplishments. We strongly believe in the holistic development of students. MCA programme accredited by NBA SJCET is committed to provide a modern industryoriented education in the arena of computer applications thereby focusing on providing students with sound theoretical background as well as good practical exposure in the relevant areas. Ever since its beginning, the department has actively organized series of TechnicalExpert Talk, Workshops, Industrial Visits, Alumni Interaction, Parents Teachers Meeting, Project work EvaluationExhibition and Technical Competitions to enrich the students from different perspectives. Personal care and attention is given to every student during hisher period of study. If you are in search of an academic community to attain qualityvalue based education, to experience personal motivation and synergy, to nurture your skills, then, this is the perfect place for you to begin VISION MISSION PEOs POs COPO Mapping VISION To emerge as a center of excellence in the field of computer education with distinct identity and quality in all areas of its activities and develop a new generation of computer professionals with proper leadership, commitment and moral values. MISSION Provide quality education in Computer Applications and bridge the gap between the academia and industry. Promoting innovation research and leadership in areas relevant to the socio economic progress of the country. Develop intellectual curiosity and a commitment to lifelong learning in students, with societal and environmental concerns. PEOs MCA Graduates will be able to progress career productively in software industry, academia, research, entrepreneurship pursuits, government, consulting firms and other IT enabled services. MCA Graduates will be able to achieve peerrecognition as an individual or in a team by adopting ethics and professionalism, and communicate effectively to excel well in crisis and interdisciplinary teams. MCA Graduates will be able to continue lifelong professional development in computing and in management that contributes in self and societal growth. POs Computational Knowledge Apply knowledge of mathematics, management, computing fundamentals, computing specialization and domain knowledge for the abstraction and conceptualization of computing models from defined problems to various reallife applications for any given requirements. Problem analysis Understand and analyse a given realworld problem and propose feasible computing solutions. Design Development of Solutions Analyse customer requirements, create highlevel design, and select modern computing tools and techniques and use them with dexterity and integrate it to all computer applications. Conduct investigations of complex Computing problems Transform complex business scenarios and contemporary issues to problems, investigate, understand and propose integrated solutions to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as safety, security and applicability especially following cyber regulations using emerging technologies. Modern Tool Usage Develop the expertise in using modern hardware and software tools which can applied in professional career consecutively to provide innovative software solutions. Professional Ethics Recognize the social, professional, cultural and ethical issues involved in the use of computer technology and give them due consideration in developing software systems as broadly educated, expressive, ethical and responsible citizens with proven expertise to solve computer problems for the betterment of the society. Lifelong Learning Recognize the importance of goal setting and to recognize the need for lifelong learning for a continued career development and progress as a computer professional. Project management and finance Master fundamental project management skills, concepts and techniques, set attainable objectives and ensure positive results, meeting scope, time and budget constraints. Communication Efficacy Communicate technical information effectively, both orally and in writing such as, being able to comprehend and write effective reports and design documentation, make effective presentations, and give and receive clear instructions. Societal and Environmental Concern An ability to devise and conduct experiments, interpret data and provide well informed conclusions for problems which will have high social and environmental impact. Individual and Team Work Work collaboratively as a member or leader in multidisciplinary teams with positive attitude to demonstrate computing and management skills and acquire good conflict resolutions skills. Innovation and Entrepreneurship Develop the talent to articulate innovative ideas and implement them using the acquired expertise and apply the inherent skills with absolute focus to function as an successful entrepreneur. COPO Mapping ATTENTION MCA ASPIRANTS It is compulsory for the students, who are interested to join MCA Course in Kerala State to attend the entrance examination conducted by the government authorities during the month of July August every year. SOCIAL COMMITMENT OF SJCET, PALAI At St. Josephs College of Engineering Technology, as a commitment to the society we are providing free MCA entrance coaching classes during the month of June every year. These sessions will be beneficial for students who are writing the entrance examination. Students who want to attend the coaching sessions for the next year can register here any time during the year: APPLY HERE FOR FREE MCA ENTRANCE COACHING MCA ADMISSION We are providing coaching classes for MCA aspirants for MCA Entrance Examinations every year. For more details, contact email to : hodmcasjcetpalai.ac.in. Help line nos: 7034767699, 9447726012, 91 4822 239700 PROGRAMS WE OFFER 60 seats in 2 Year MCA Course Eligibility Criteria : MCA Regular Passed B.C.A B.Sc. Computer Science B.Sc. IT B.E. CSE B.Tech. CSE B.E. IT B.Tech. IT or equivalent Degree. OR Passed any graduation degree e.g.: B.E. B.Tech. B.Sc B.Com. B.A. B. Voc. etc., preferably with Mathematics at 102 level or at Graduation level obtained at least 50 marks 45 marks in case of candidates belonging to reserved category in the qualifying examination. for students having no Mathematics background compulsory bridge course will be framed by the KTU Institution and additional bridge courses related to computer subjects as per the norms of the KTU. They also have to appear for the entrance exam conducted by LBS for MCA and have to acquire the required cut off marks for the entrance examination. Eligible candidates with required cut off marks in the entrance exam will be called for counselling based on their academic merits and LBS Exam rank and admission will be confirmed. Those who wish to apply for the MCA Entrance Exam please visit the site: Those who wish to get Free Entrance Coaching Classes, Please register: Apply Now MCA Integrated Eligibility Criteria : MCA Integrated No Entrance Exam Passed 102SSLC and Plus 2 Examination with Mathematics or Statistics or Accountancy as compulsory subjects. Obtained at least 45 marks 40 in the case of candidates belonging to reserved categories in the qualifying Examination. There is no need to appear in any entrance examination to get admission. Eligible candidates with required cut off marks will be called for counselling based on their academic merits and admission will be confirmed. Application form and prospectus can be obtained from the college by paying Rs.500 in cash or Apply Online: www.sjcetpalai.ac.inadmissionportal Ph.D. Master of Computer Applications The Ph.D. in Master of Computer Applications is a research degree which culminates in a unique dissertation that demonstrates original and creative research. The program has been designed to help the research scholars to gain an indepth understanding of a specialized subject related to computer science. This would allow them to predict developments and make contributions in area of expertise. The research scholars pursuing the Ph.D.degree are provided with an environment and facilities that help to develop analytic and research skills to define the research problems, to study advanced knowledge base to discover innovative solutions available till date. They are also provided with opportunities to practice consultation so as to facilitate innovative change in organizations, communities, and society. FEE STRUCTURE MCA Item HeadSem 1Sem 2Sem 3Sem4Total Admission Feeone Time 500 0 0 0 500 Caution DepositRefundable 5000 0 0 0 5000 Tuition Fee 25000 25000 25000 25000 100000 Exam Fees 2600 2600 2330 2645 10175 Special Fee Semester wise 7500 7500 7500 7500 30000 KTU Student Affiliation Fee 1050 0 0 0 1050 KTU Student administration fee 1050 0 0 0 1050 KTU Arts and Sports Fee 530 0 530 0 1060 PTA FeesYearly 1000 0 1000 0 2000 Common Conveyance Charges 3000 0 0 0 3000 Industry Connect Training Fee 4000 0 0 0 4000 Total 51230 35100 36360 35145 157835 Subject to approval by Governing Body of the college May vary as per KTU norms FEE STRUCTURE INTERGRATED MCA Item HeadSem 1Sem 2Sem 3Sem 4Sem 5Sem 6Sem 7Sem 8Sem 9Sem 10Total Admission Feeone Time 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 500 Caution DepositRefundable 10000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 10000 Tuition Fee 25000 25000 25000 25000 25000 25000 30000 30000 30000 30000 270000 KTU Exam Fees 2615 2615 2615 2615 2615 2615 2615 2615 2615 2615 26150 KTU Student Affiliation Feeone Time 1050 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1050 KTU Student administration feeone Time 1050 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1050 KTU Arts and Sports FeeYearly 530 0 530 0 530 0 530 0 530 0 2650 Special Fee 10000 0 10000 0 10000 0 10000 0 10000 0 50000 PTA FeesYearly 1000 0 1000 0 1000 0 1000 0 1000 0 5000 Common Conveyance Charges 7500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 7500 Industry Connect Training Fee 8000 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 8000 Total 67245 27615 39145 27615 39145 27615 44145 32615 44145 32615 381900 Subject to approval by Governing Body of the college May vary as per KTU norms INITIATIVES BEYOND THE CLASS ROOM Department Learning Management System About MOODLE Moodle acronym for Modular ObjectOriented Dynamic Learning Environment is a free software, for elearning platform, also known as a Learning Management System, or Virtual Learning Environment VLE. It is designed using sound educational principles, to help students create effective webbased learning experiences. LMS in MCA SJCET Department of Computer Applications has been exploiting the features of LMS in its daily work since 2011. All the faculty members as well as students of the department are authenticated to log in to the system using username and password. LMS enables faculty members to create, integrate, track and manage courses, quizzes, and presentations. Also there is facility for the students to submit assignments and interact with their instructors and classmates. The department provides aptitude trainings every week for better placement by settingup model aptitude test rounds in the LMS Professional Society Membership Computer Society of India CSI Computer Society of India is the first and largest body of computer professionals in India. This professional body emerged on 6th March 1965 by a few computer professionals and has now become the toast of the technology world among other professional organization. Now this prominent professional body coordinates and provides various services to all other student branches all over India. CSI offers various technical services like membership services, Publications, IT related Seminars, Workshops and Conferences helps in networking opportunities. Indian Society for Technical Education ISTE The Indian Society for Technical Education is a national, professional, nonprofit making Society registered under the Societies Registration Act of 1860. First started in 1941 as the Association of Principals of Technical Institutions APTI, it was converted into Indian Society for Technical Education in 1968 with a view to enlarge its activities to advance the cause of technological education. The major objective of the ISTE is to assist and contribute in the production and development of top quality professional engineers and technicians needed by the industries and other organisations. IAENG The International Association of Engineers IAENG is the largest nonprofit international association for all engineers and computer scientists. IAENG was founded by a group of engineers and computer scientists in 1968, originally as a private club network for its founding members. Later, with the efforts from its members, IAENG membership became open to all the members in the engineering and computer science community. Nowadays, the IAENG members include research center heads, faculty deans, department heads, professors, research scientistsengineers, experienced software development directors and engineers, and university postgraduate and undergraduate students etc., from over one hundred different countries. STUDENTS ASSOCIATION The students association SMASH of Department of Computer Applications MCA had inaugurated the activities in the year 2010. SMASH organizes various technical and managerial activities, workshops, seminars and competitions both at intra and intercollegiate level to illuminate the talents of the students in cocurricular and in technical domains apart from the core curriculum covered. The main programmes organized by SMASH is the national level intercollegiate Technical fest under the title Fenstra. In addition to this, multimedia and PowerPoint competitions are organized for the students. Supporting the innate creative talents of the students, department was successful in launching a campus film shot in the campus titled FOR MY LAPTOP, conceived and crewed by the students of 2010 admission. Preview was arranged in the college campus and the digital copy was released. NPTEL LOCAL CHAPTER NPTEL is the largest repository of online courses in Engineering, Science Humanities from Indias best Institutes. Students can experience class room like learning from the experts. SJCET Palai is now a Local Chapter of NPTEL. The students of SJCET can access all the courses of NPTEL even without an Internet connection. More than 350 courses on Engineering, Science Technology is available locally at SJCET Palai Server. The students can apply for scholarships provided by companies like Aricent. The students who pass the examination are also eligible for a certificate from reputed IITs. CYBER SECURITY DAY Department of MCA in association with Janamayithri Police is Conducting Cyber Security Day on November 30th of every Year, recognizing the importance of making the young generation alert about the pitfall in the cyber world. We had organized a half day seminar which has been presided by an official from CYBER CELL Kottayam, who had explained students about the relevance of Cyber Security and showcased through examples, how ignorance about the same had defamed and destroyed the lives of so many youths. On march 9th 2023, in association with SMASH, MCA Association, an expert talk were conducted on the topic Cyber Secuirity by Dr. Terry Jacob Mathew. FENSTRA Fenstra is the prestigious National Level InterCollegiate meet, conducted as part of ASTHRA organized by SJCET, Palai. Various technical events including Treasure Hunt, Network gaming, paper presentation, technical Quiz, Coding, debugging, etc were conducted as part of Fenstra in different years. Department Level Committee Department Quality Assurance Cell DQAC Sl noName Designation 1 Dr. Rahul Shajan, HOD MCA Chairman 2 Prof. Alex Jose, Asst. Professor Member 3 Prof. Liz George, Asst. Professor Convener 4 Prof. Akhil Sekharan, Asst. Professor Member 5 Mr. Ajay S, Technical Staff Representative Member Stream Coordinators SI.NoName of FacultyCourse Category 1 Prof.Alex Jose Elective Courses 2 Prof.Sumithmon K.S Core Courses 3 Prof.Akhil Sekharan Lab Courses 4 Dr.Rahul Shajan Seminar Project Department Advisory Committee DAC Sl noName Designation 1 Principal, SJCET Permanent Invitee 2 Head of the Department Chairman 3 Prof. Liz George, Assistant Professor Convener 4 Rev. Fr. Thomas Njavallil, Management representative Member 5 Prof. Alex Jose, Assistant Professor Member 6 Prof. Akhil Sekharan, Assistant Professor Member 7 Training and Placement Officer College Member 8 Mr. Mathew Joseph, One Parent Representative Member 9 Mr. Kishor Vinod, Student Representative Member 10 Mr.Arjun Paul , Alumni Representative Member 11 Mr. Ajay S, Technical staff nominated by HOD Member 12 Mr. Vishnu Shaji, Senior developer, TCS, Industry Expert Member 13 Prof. Bijimol T K, Santhigiri College of Computer Sciences, Vazhithala Member OUR STRENGTH Ph.D in Computer Applications The college is Research Centre of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University KTU. Candidates qualifying the KTUs Entrance procedure can join for Ph.D under the approved guide in the college Research Scholars Sl NoName of Research ScholarArea of ResearchFull Part timeRegistration No. 1 Sumithmon K. S Recommendation System Part time DSJC22JAN001 2 Bhanumathi Mohan Recommendation System Full time DSJC23JUL001 Approved Guide STUDENT ACTIVITIES ACHIEVEMENTS Merit Day MCA 202224 Batch The convocation program for MCA 202224 Batch was organized on 13th July 2024 at Einstein Hall around 9:30 AM. Faculties from various departments attended the function and gave their wishes to the outgoing students. Techsphere24 Workshop Series On 12th March 2024, Msgr. Dr. Gladston Raj S. inaugurated the webinar series called Techsphere24 for degree students. Manager Fr. Mathew Koramkuzha, Principal Dr. V.P Devassia, Vice Principal Dr. Madhukumar S, Bursar Fr. John Mattamundayil, HoD Dr. Rahul Shajan, Program Coordinator Mr. Akhil Sekharan were addressed the gathering. More than 260 graduates from other colleges have participated in different workshops. The series consisted of four sessions, each of which delved into various technological aspects such as IoT, cyber security, soft skills, and New Age of Intelligence . The speakers were experts in their respective fields, and they imparted a great deal of knowledge to the participants. In this report, we will take a closer look at each session and its key takeaways. The Techsphere webinar series was a comprehensive and informative learning experience for degree students. The series covered various aspects of technology, and the speakers provided valuable insights into their respective fields. The series was a great opportunity for students to learn from experts and gain exposure to the latest technological trends. SMASH Inauguration 2023 Activities of SMASH, MCA Association, for the year 202324 were inaugurated on 15th Nov 2023 Wednesday by Mr. Jijo Augustine, Senior System Engineer, UST Global in the esteemed presence of Msgr. Dr. Joseph Maleparampil, Chairman of SJCET,Vice Principal Dr. Madhukumar S, Bursar Fr. John Mattamundayil, HoD Dr. Rahul Shajan, Association President Mr. Alex Jose, Association Treasurer Mr. Akhil Sekharan, other staff members and students of MCA department have witnessed the program. Merit Day MCA 202123 Batch The convocation program for MCA 202123 Batch was organized on 24th June 2023 at Einstein Hall around 9:30 AM. Faculties from various departments attended the function and gave their wishes to the outgoing students. Techsphere Workshop Series On 9th March 2023, Msgr. Dr. Joseph Maleparampil Chairman of SJCET inaugurated the webinar series called Techsphere for degree students. Manager Fr. Mathew Koramkuzha, Principal Dr. V.P Devassia, Vice Principal Dr. Madhukumar S, Bursar Fr. John Mattamundayil, HoD in Charge Mr. Anish Augustine, Program Coordinator Mr. Akhil Sekharan were addressed the gathering. More than 200 graduates from other colleges have participated in different workshops. The series consisted of four sessions, each of which delved into various technological aspects such as blockchain, cyber security, soft skills, and mobile application development. The speakers were experts in their respective fields, and they imparted a great deal of knowledge to the participants. In this report, we will take a closer look at each session and its key takeaways. The Techsphere webinar series was a comprehensive and informative learning experience for degree students. The series covered various aspects of technology, and the speakers provided valuable insights into their respective fields. The series was a great opportunity for students to learn from experts and gain exposure to the latest technological trends. Conference Participation and Publication Journal Papers of Eight MCA 202123 Batch students were selected for the international conference on Advanced Computing and Communication Technology on 10th February 2023 at Santhigiri College, vazhithala. And the papers were published in the journal. FACILITIES SOFTWARE LAB Wellfurnished software lab with more than 60 most modern computers with latest softwares is installed in the college. All the various software required for the students are made available in the lab. Good collection of the most modern software is made available for the students. The lab is running on both windows and Linux platforms. We also encourage the use of free software. Department Library In addition to the college general library, the MCA department library maintains collection of more than 1700 latest edition books related to the academics and new technology. The Department has set up the library to support the students as well as the staff in their academic and research interests. The working time of the library is 8:30 am to 5:30 pm. The library is equipped with suitable infrastructure to facilitate learning and reference. Hardware Lab The main objective of the hardware lab is to provide the students with knowledge and working of the hardware devices used in the computer like motherboard, RAM, Processor, SMPS, different add on cards, and other peripherals like printers. Hardware Lab provides students with handson experience in computer hardware. All the systems in this lab are interconnected and backed up with UPS. The lab is equipped with the appropriate number of PCs, other Hardware components, and Toolkits. The capacity of the lab is 60. DEPARTMENT PUBLICATIONS Study on Current trends in Deep Learning for autonomous driving Sivapriya, Dr. Rajan,Rahul shajan Diabetes prediction using machine learning , Rintu Raju,Dr.Rahul Deep Learning to identify plant species ,Fayas Rasheed,Liz George A systematic study on Cyber Attacks On Medical Data Meera S ,Akhil Sekha Study on Does Electric Vehicle can sustain the equillibrium of environment Arshad Dilaver,Alex Jose Systematic study of sentiment analysis for consumer reviewGopika Vijayan , Liz George Artificial intelligence on vlogging cameras Chandhu Lal , Alex Jose A Survey of Neuromorphic Computing and Neural Networks in Hardware Reshma Roy , Dr. Rahul Shajan A systematic review of threats in data sharing Prathibha Prakash,Akhil Sekharan PLACEMENTS TOP RECRUITERS

SJCET Palai Placement SJCET Palai SJCET boasts of outstanding placements ever since its inception. SJCETs placement statistics stand ample testimony to its objective of placing all eligible interested candidates according to the students career choices. Even during challenging times of economic recession, on account of the corporate trust reposed on SJCET, we were able to harness significantly good careers for our students. The SJCET Corporate relations, placement and training Department core functionaries include Prof. Sachin Jose and two faculty members nominated by each Department to support their activities. Selected students of the final prefinal year batches will facilitate the activities of the Department. Prof. Sachin Jose, has a couple of years of experience in Research and ample experience in training and placements. The College Placement Department can be reached at placementsjcetpalai.ac.in. 202024 graduating batch students of SJCET were hired by a good mix of companies from varied sectors, mainly belonging to IT, ITeS, Design, Manufacturing, Banking etc. The top recruiters include Infosys, Virtusa, TCS, Sutherland Global, UST, Federal Bank, South Indian Bank, Experion Technologies, 6D Technologies, JBDS, GLS Group, Dhoot Transmission, Esskay Fabrication, Speridian, Systools, Poornam Info Vision and so forth.

Academic Audit SJCET Palai Student Verification: 91 9495684408 | Admission Helplines : 91 8078 700 700 | Admission 2025 Apply Now | Placements 202324 | Library Book Search | Library Home

Best Practices SJCET Palai Objectives of the Practice: To develop and strengthen generic skills required for career and societal life. To develop sensitization towards social issues and holistic development. To create the knowledge of recent technology and techniques among students. To develop an attitude for lifelong learning. To instill innate talents through sports and cultural activities. The context: The Professionals need to possess a blend of both generic skills and professional skills in order to excel in their careers and achieve success in life. The amalgamation of generic skills and professional competencies determines candidates ability to perform well in their jobs and contribute to society. Therefore, it is imperative for students to receive education and training in generic skills and professional competencies through an actionable and comprehensive plan. To accomplish this, educational institutes must develop academic calendars and design programs that incorporate best practices and methods for the development of generic skills and professional competencies. The Practice: The institute has a wellstructured and calendarbased schedule of programs and activities aimed at fostering generic skills and professional competencies. The institute offers the following programs to its students: Soft Skills Life Skills ICT Computing Skills Language Communication Online MOOC programs SWAYAM, NPTEL Certificate Addon Value added programs Sports day Cultural events NSS and outreach programs Placement details Specific training and workshops are organized for each program, ensuring that students from every department have the opportunity to enhance their professional competencies. Likewise, the institute promotes and facilitates student engagement in both internal and external sports and cultural activities. Additionally, as part of its social corporate responsibility, the institute encourages students to actively participate in NSS and other outreach programs. Evidence of Success: Among the 184 capacity building and skill enhancement programs organized by the institute, students from all departments actively took part. An impressive 95.7 of the students have successfully attended the Certificate Add on Value added programs offered and online MOOC programs like SWAYAM, NPTEL etc arranged by the institute. With the institute hosting 209 outreach programs, nearly every student is actively involved in at least one of these initiatives. The institutes concerted efforts in organizing these programs have led to a rising placement rate. In the most recent year, 500 industry offers were received for students. There has been a consistent annual increase in the number of students participating in these programs. Problems encountered and Resources required It is challenging for both faculty members and students to find time from their regular work and academic commitments to encourage students to undertake innovative and technically competent projects. The following are the problems that have been encountered: Encouraging individuals to participate in the program. Difficulty in finding time for faculty members and students due to regular classes and work. Ensuring completion of certification for the SWAYAM and NPTEL programs. Through dedicated efforts and comprehensive training right from the start, all mental barriers have been overcome. Students have actively engaged in all programs and acquired the necessary skills with the support and guidance of the faculty, mentors, and training providers. Objectives of the Practice: To establish a cooperative relationship between Institute and Industry. To encourage mutually beneficial researchoriented learning inputs for faculty and students To enhance newer technology transfer for socio economic development To bridge gap between employability and competence To augment communication and professionalism The context: The faculty development and research activities play a significant role in enhancing the performance of the institute and enable the institution to achieve its mission. These activities also empower faculty members to engage in community and regional initiatives. Furthermore, the training and research initiatives have a direct impact on students project activities and contribute to the expansion of their knowledge base. The Practice: To comprehend the skills demanded by the industry, partnerships and Memorandums of Understanding MoUs have been established with 24 organizations and industries. The institution has conducted following activities to boost research and development. The institute has implemented a policy to offer financial aid aimed at bolstering research and development. Faculty members are encouraged to participate in seminars, conferences, research projects and paper publications. A grant of 114 lakhs has been allocated to the institute for project undertakings. The college actively encourages students to participate in Idea grant competitions organized by the Kerala startup mission KSUM, and several student teams have successfully secured Idea grants from KSUM. Moreover, the institution maintains close association with chapters such as the American Society of Mechanical Engineers ASME, Society of Automotive Engineers SAE, Computer Society of India CSI, and the American Society of Civil Engineers ASCE. Evidence of Success: Students have the opportunity to engage in academic project work by visiting these industries. With the support of the industry, they design new products and write research papers. This has led to an improvement in their placement prospects. A significant number of research projects are undertaken throughout the assessment year. Faculty development programs have been attended by 42 of the faculty members. Problems encountered and Resources required: The research program plays a crucial role in the learning and development process for individuals. However, finding time amidst regular work to encourage individuals to engage in research projects poses difficulties for both faculty members. The following are the problems that have been encountered: Insufficient availability of highend equipment. Lack of qualified resource persons. Limited availability of research assignments. These challenges were overcome through the motivation, guidance, and support provided by faculty mentors and the management. To support the willingness of students and faculty members to work on their research projects, several resources were made available, including CADCAM software, assistance from the research cell, access to the library, and active participation of educators.

Institut
Akhil Sekharan SJCET Palai Akhil Sekharan Software Development Center 20230727T03:54:5100:00 Prof.Akhil Sekharan Assistant Professor Department of Computer Applications Mobile Number: 91 8547629557 Email: akhil.sekharansjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining:07.08.2017 Nature of association: Regular Education Experience Conferences Seminarworkshops FDP Lectures Delivered MOOC Courses Achievements Education Sl.NoQualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of passingSpecialization 1 BCA MGU Kottayam MA College, Ramapuram 2010 Client Server Computing 2 MCA MGU Kottayam Nirmala College, Muvattupuzha 2013 Cyrptography and Client Server Computing 3 PhD APJAKTU Trivandrum SJCET Palai Pursuing Data Security Experience Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 Mar Kuriakose Arts and Science College, Puthuveli Asst. Professor 2013 November 2017 August 2 SJCET Palai, Asst. Professor 2017 August till date Conferences Seminarworkshops 1Steps to ResearchAJCET IIT Bomby2014 2 ISO 9001:2015 AWARENESS Zandig TQM Solutions 28th June 2018 3 Python Programming ICT Academy, Technopark 12th to 13th Dec 2019 4 Everyone can do Quality Research Talk Series KITBS, Selam 9th Aug 2020, 16th Aug 2020 5 Theoretical Computer Science Challenges and Opportunities Saintgits Kottayam 21st Nov 2020 6 Research Methodology Writing Effective Research Article Funding Proposals VISAT Engineering College 10th Oct 2022 5 Research Paper Writing Mea Engineering College Perinthalmanna, 28122022 29122022 FDP TopicOrganizerDate 1. Guidance and Counselling SJCET Palai 04th to 08th Dec 2017 2. BlockChain CUSAT, Cochin 21st to 25th Oct 2019 3. Predictive Analysis Saintgits Kottayam 9th to 19th Oct 2019 4. Mathematics for Research Sree Buddha College, Alappuzha 10th to 14th Aug 2020 5. Machine Learning Applications and Industrial Perspective SJCET Palai 11th to 16th January, 2021 6. Exploring Image Processing and Computer Vision using Python College of Engineering Kidangoor 1st to 5th Mar 2021 7. Artificial Intelligence Applications Marian Engineering College, Trivandrum 29 Aug 3 Sep 2022 8. Blockchain Technology its Applications SJCET Palai 16th to 20th Jan 2023 9. Addressing Open Problems in Medical Domain through AI Muthoot Institute of Technology and Science, Kochi 30th Jan to 3rd Feb 2023 Lectures Delivered Sl. NoTitle TopicYear DurationOrganizer 1 Application Development in JAVA December 2018, 4 Days GPTC Palai 2 Application Development in JAVA December 2017, 2 Days GPTC Palai 3 Application Development in JAVA December 2016, 2 Days GPTC Palai 4 Compiler Design January 9, 1900 GPTC Palai 5 Trends in IoT Cyber Security 11 June 2021 Christ College Kattappana 6 Student Orientation 2022 March 23 Mar Kuriakose Arts and Science College, Puthuvely 7 Social Media Youth 2022 September 3 Marygiri College Of Arts And Science, Koothattukulam MOOC Courses CourseFromDate Command Line Interface CLI with Golang Coursera April 2022 Getting Started with Azure Devops Board Coursera April 2022 Achievements Qualified Graduate Aptitude Test in Engineering GATE for the year 2014 Qualified UGC NET Assistant Professorship Only in the subject Computer Science Applications June 2019. Qualified UGC NET Assistant Professorship Only in the subject Computer Science Applications June 2021.

Alex Jose SJCET Palai Alex Jose Software Development Center 20230727T03:53:2600:00 Prof. Alex Jose Assistant Professor Department of Computer Applications Mobile Number: 91 9605024999 Email: alexsjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining:23.12.2004 Nature of association: Regular Education Experience Memberships FDP Education Sl.NoQualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of passingSpecialization 1 BCA M.G Uty,kottayam BVMHCC Cherpunkal 1998 Computer Science 2 MCA Periyar Uty ,Selam KSRCAS,Erode 2002 Computer Science 3 M.Phil Bharathiyar Uty Combitore Bharathiyar Uty 2012 Computer Science Experience Status as on date of joining : System Administrator Present status : Assistant Professor Previous Experience Industrial Experience : 1year Teaching Experience : 1 year Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 Basenetfirms Pvt. Ltd System Engineer 1 2 MA College Ramapuram Lecturer 8 months 3 SOCS , M.G University Lecturer 4 months Memberships Sl. NoName of InstitutionType of Membership 1 ISTE Life Member FDP Sl. NoName of TrainingWorkshopYear Date DurationOrganizer 1 Teaching Excellence and Methodologies A short term course for the faculties of Engineering Colleges organized by Indian Society for Technical Education. 20063days ISTE 2 Maintaining Quality and relevance in engineering education One Day National Seminar sponsored by the All India Council for Technical Education and Indian Society for Technical Education. 20061 day AICTE 3 Workshop on cyber security and CCNSP essentials 2011 3days Elitecore, Bangalore 4 Workshop on writing effective conference papers 20122dayus NMICT, IIT Bombay 5 Workshop on Computer programming 20152weeks NMICT,IIT Bombay 6 Workshop on Introduction to Design of Algorithms a two week ISTE STTP 20152 weeks NMICT,IIT Kharagpur 7 Workshop on Learning and Development Intervention 20133days CLHRD, Manglore

Binila Binoy SJCET Palai Binila Binoy Software Development Center 20240806T04:04:1100:00 Prof. Binila Binoy Assistant Professor Department of Computer Applications Mobile Number: 91 80783 88926 Email: binilabinoysjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining: 01072024 Education Experience Education SL.NOQualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of PassingSpecialization 1 Graduation Mahatma Gandhi MC Varghese College of Arts and Science, Ettumanoor 2017 BCA 2 Post Graduation APJAKTU SJCET Palai 2019 MCA Experience Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 Quest Global Senior Software Engineer 9 Months 2 Infosys limited Software developer 3 years 3 Infosys limited Software developer Intern 8 months
Artificial Intelligence And Data Science SJCET Palai Artificial Intelligence And Data Science Software Development Center 20230426T09:53:4600:00 Incorrect slider name. Please make sure to use a valid slider slug. About the Department The Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science was incepted in the year 2020 offering B.Tech Programme in one of the state of the art specializations, AIDS. The Programme is approved by AICTE, APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University KTU, and the Government of Kerala. DEPARTMENT VISION AND MISSION DEPARTMENT VISION AND MISSION The Department mission is to produce engineering graduates with a sound understanding of the fundamentals of the theory and practice of Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning and Data Science tools and techniques for arriving at meaningful insights from big data. The department intends to enable the students to become leaders in the industry and academia, both nationally and internationally, and to meet the pressing demands of the nation in the areas of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science. PROGRAM DETAILS Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Artificial intelligence AI is the simulation of human intelligence processes by machines, especially computer systems. Intelligence, the ability to learn and the ability to make decisions based on what we have already learnt, is what makes humans stand apart from all other living beings. AI is thus an interdisciplinary research field, which tries to impart intelligence in machines be it anything so that it can take learned decisions autonomously, thus making the world a better place. Data science DS, being the science of extracting meaningful information from the huge sea of data available today, is an integral part of AI. It is, in fact, DS that helped in the revival of AI as an engineering stream lately. This branch of study deals with scientific methodologies, processes, and techniques drawn from different domains of engineering science statistics, cognitive science, computing, health science, information science, etc. to extract knowledge from structured data and unstructured data. This trending specialized branch deals with the development of datadriven solutions, data visualization tools, and techniques to analyze big data. It also incorporates the concepts of machine learning and deep learning model building for solving various computational and realworld problems. Artificial Intelligence and Data Science is a suitable course for those desirous of developing various intelligent engineering systems and business solutions. Big data solutions have changed the way in which business models are built and run. In this programme, you will learn how to design, create and implement AI and DSbased software solutions to solve actual engineeringbusiness problems. This programme helps to explore concepts such as AI, Data Analytics, Data visualization, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, semantic web and social network analytics, Blockchain Technologies, and Data Security Privacy, etc. PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS THE INSTITUTE OF ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONICS ENGINEERS IEEE IEEE opens the door to opportunities that will help students to develop their professional identity in IEEEs designated fields of interest: sciences, technology, engineering, and mathematics STEM. In addition to accessing a range of membership benefits, students will make global connections with people who can help students along their targeted career path through IEEEs international community of members and volunteers. ADSA Artificial intelligence and Data Science Students Association The Department of Artificial intelligence and Data has science is a newly involved department of this Institution. Education is simply the soul of a society as it passes from one generation to another. Commemorating the quote of a famous American civil rights activist, A word as to the education of the heart, we dont believe that this can be imparted through books, it can only be imparted through the loving touch of the teacher, ADSA was proposed with the objective to organize various activities that consists of drawing the goodness and best out of our own students under the guidance of the well trained faculty members of the department. INITIATIVES BEYOND THE CLASS ROOM Mentor System Each faculty member in the department is assigned the complete responsibility of 30 students. This Faculty Mentor establishes a close relationship with students, orients them to college practices, follows their progress regularly and guides them throughout the fouryear course. Employment of this idea has helped several students to solve the problems they face in the academics. Also this method helps the parents to keep track of their child and their academic performance. Remedial Education The students with backlogs have a heavy load as they must take exams simultaneously for both the new semesters subjects as well as for the subjects they fail and they cannot attend classes in the subjects they have failed. Thus, they do not get any additional teaching in the subjects in which they are weak unless they resort to coaching classes or other private means. This may in turn result in cumulative failures, leading some students to take more years to complete the fouryear engineering course. To help our students from such situations, remedial classes are provided by the AI DS department during the month before the repeat exams, enabling the students to face the difficult papers with greater confidence and ease. Placement Training Department offers intense placement training on regular basis. LEARNING MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Learning Management System LMS designed to complement classroom instruction and engage students in online activities , assignments and discussions, examinations, wikies that allow for deeper participation inside and outside the classroom. Visit Here NPTEL Local chapterNPTEL Local chapter NPTEL is the largest repository of online courses in Engineering, Science Humanities from Indias best Institutes. Students can experience class room like learning from the experts. SJCET Palai is now a Local Chapter of NPTEL. The students of SJCET can access all the courses of NPTEL even without an Internet connection. More than 350 courses on Engineering, Science Technology is available locally at SJCET Palai Server. The students can apply for scholarships provided by companies like Aricent. The students who pass the examination are also eligible for a certificate from reputed IITs. Coursera Campus Response Initiative Courseras mission is to transform lives through learning. To help minimize the impact of the coronavirus COVID19 outbreak on students, the Coursera community is launching a global effort to assist universities and colleges to deliver courseware online. SJCET has joined in this initiative. Now our students can access 3,800 courses and 400 Specializations in Coursera absolutely free of cost. OUR STRENGTH

Anish Augustine K SJCET Palai Anish Augustine K Software Development Center 20230727T03:52:2500:00 Prof.Anish Augustine K Assistant Professor Department of Computer Applications Mobile Number: 91 9747740033 Email: anish.augustinesjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining:15.10.2016 Nature of association: Regular Education Experience Memberships FDP Conferences Seminarworkshops Publications Research Development Education Sl.NoQualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of passingSpecialization 1 Graduation BSC COMPUTER SC. UIT ALAPPUZHA 2013 COMPUTER SCIENCE 2 Post Graduation MCA GOVT. RIT KOTTAYAM 2017 COMPUTER APPLICATION Experience Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 GOVT. ENG. COLLEGE KOTTAYAM LECTURER 4 YRS 2 MAZCO, SAUDI ARABIA IT SUPPORT 1.5 YRS Memberships Sl. NoName of InstitutionType of Membership 1 ASAP TRAINER FDP Sl. NoName of TrainingWorkshopYear Date DurationOrganizer 1 MACHINE LEARNING WORKSHOP 09.01.2018 TO 15.01.2018 TEQIP 2 MACHINE LEARNING STTP 07.07.2017 AICTE 3 6 days FDP on Cyber Security 02 to 07 Nov 2020 TEQUIPII,TKM college, Kollam 4 7 days FDP on Big data Analytics 27 July to 2nd August 2020 REVA University, Bangalore 5 5 days FDP on Industrial Revolution 4.0 13th to 17th July 2020 AICTE 6 International FDP on Linux 22nd to 28th July 2020 RedHat, IPSR,Marian College Kuttikanam, 7 6 days FDP on Recent Trends in IT 27 July to 1st August 2020 FISAT, Angamaly Conferences Seminarworkshops Sl. NoTitle Topic Date DurationSponsors 1 CYBER SECURITY DAY SEMINAR 30.11.2017 SJCET Publications Impact of personalized learning infrastructure on the academic performance of students Selffunded with the guidance from Indian Institute of Information Technology IIIT, Kottayam 2020 Research Development Sl. NoProject TitleFunding AgencyAmountDuration 1 SPEECH RECOGNITION MALAYALAM DIT, GOVT. OF INDIA 10 LAKHS 201415 2 Data Analytics IIIT Kottayam Date of Registration: 01092019

Artificial Intelligence And Data Science SJCET Palai Artificial Intelligence And Data Science Software Development Center 20230622T14:28:3400:00 Incorrect slider name. Please make sure to use a valid slider slug. About the Department Established in 2020 with an initial intake of 60 students, the Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science offers a graduate program that has been approved by the All India Council for Technical Education AICTE and is affiliated with APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University KTU. The department is equipped with stateoftheart infrastructure and possesses a wellqualified, experienced, and dedicated faculty team. The departments success is attributed to the innovative and creative outlook of its students, who actively participate in cocurricular activities, such as IEEE,and extracurricular activities, such as sports and social events, throughout the academic year. The department also facilitates technologyenabled learning,with students actively participating in NPTEL and codingproject competitions across the country. VISION MISSION VISION To achieve excellence in artificial intelligence and data science to cater the everchanging industrial and socioeconomic needs. MISSION To provide highquality and valuebased technical education in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science program. To establish an infrastructure fostering industryinstitute interaction in order to meet global expectations and requirements. To empower students to become globally competent and effective problemsolvers to develop entrepreneurial skills and higher studies. PROGRAM DETAILS Artificial Intelligence and Data Science Artificial Intelligence AI and Data Science DS are distinct but complementary fields that have become increasingly important in recent years.AI involves creating machines that can simulate human intelligence processes, while DS focuses on extracting meaningful information from data to solve realworld problems. Together, AI and DS comprise a new interdisciplinary field that draws on various domains, such as engineering science, statistics, cognitive science, computing, health science, and information science. Students in this field learn how to design and implement AI and DSbased solutions for engineering and business problems, including machine learning, data visualization, semantic web and social network analytics, blockchain technologies, and data security and privacy. Big data solutions have changed the way in which business models are built and run. This program is ideal for those looking to develop intelligent engineering systems and business solutions in the age of big data. PROFESSIONAL SOCIETIES AND ASSOCIATIONS 

Department of Computer Science and Engineering SJCET Palai Department of Computer Science and Engineering Software Development Center 20220505T07:30:3400:00 EVERYONE SHOULD LEARN HOW TO CODE, IT TEACHES YOU HOW TO THINK Striking the delicate balance between theory and practice, the Computer Science and Engineering Department of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology Palai provides a wellrounded education through innovative methods to meet the needs of our students. Computer Science and Engineering Department has a unique blend of faculty and facilities that offers students a rare opportunity to do research and learn Computer Science in new collaborative ways. VISION MISSION PEO PSO VISION To evolve as a school of computing with globally reputed centres of excellence and serve the changing needs of the industry and society. MISSION The department is committed in bringing out career oriented graduates who are industry ready through innovative practices of teaching and learning process To nurture professional approach, leadership qualities and moral values to the graduates by organizing various programs periodically To acquire selfsustainability and serve the society through research and consultancy PEO PEO1: The graduates will have a successful career in industries associated with Computer Science and Engineering or as entrepreneurs. PEO2: The graduates will have the ability and attitude to adapt to emerging technological changes. PEO3: The graduates will be able to pursue higher education and research. PSO After Successful Completion of the programme, the graduates will be able to PSO 1: Analyze, design and develop computing solutions by applying foundational concepts of Computer Science and Engineering. PSO 2: Apply software engineering principles and practices for developing quality software for scientific and business applications. PSO 3: Adapt to emerging Information and Communication Technologies by providing innovative ideas and solutions to novel problems. 

Department of Computer Science and Engineering Achievements Archive SJCET Palai Department of Computer Science and Engineering Achievements STUDENT ACTIVITIES ACHIEVEMENTS Googles DEVELOPER STUDENT CLUB PROGRAMS Congratulations to Praveen K S, S6 CSE for being selected as the Lead for Googles Developer Student Club of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai KDISC YOUNG INNOVATORS PROGRAMME Congratulations to Reon Saji, S6 CSE for being selected Young Innovators Programme YIP by Kerala Development and Innovation Strategy Council KDISC, a strategic thinktank and advisory body constituted by the Government of Kerala. SMART INDIA HACKATHON 2018 WINNERS Congratulations to Team Kryptonite 6.Reon Saji, Praveen K S, Sandeep Salmon, Smitha John, Hanna George and Neethu Naduvathettu of St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai bagged the All India Persistent Inspiration Award at the 2nd Smart India Hackathon, which is the worlds biggest Hackathon organized by AICTE, MHRD and MyGov. STARTUP WEEKEND KOCHI Startup Weekend is a 54hour weekend event, during which groups of developers, business managers, startup enthusiasts, students, graphic artists and more pitch ideas for new startup companies, form teams around those ideas, and work to develop a working prototype, demo, or presentation by Sunday evening. Startup Weekend has grown into an organization with a global presence.

Artificial Intelligence And Data Science SJCET Palai Artificial Intelligence And Data Science Software Development Center 20230821T06:24:1600:00 About the Department Established in 2020 with an initial intake of 60 students, the Department of Artificial Intelligence and Data Science offers a graduate program that has been approved by the All India Council for Technical Education AICTE and is affiliated with APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University KTU. The department is equipped with stateoftheart infrastructure and possesses a wellqualified, experienced, and dedicated faculty team. The departments success is attributed to the innovative and creative outlook of its students, who actively participate in cocurricular activities, such as IEEE,and extracurricular activities, such as sports and social events, throughout the academic year. The department also facilitates technologyenabled learning,with students actively participating in NPTEL and codingproject competitions across the country. VISION MISSION PEO PSO PO VISION To achieve excellence in artificial intelligence and data science to cater the everchanging industrial and socioeconomic needs. MISSION To provide highquality and valuebased technical education in Artificial Intelligence and Data Science program. To establish an infrastructure fostering industryinstitute interaction in order to meet global expectations and requirements. To empower students to become globally competent and effective problemsolvers to develop entrepreneurial skills and higher studies.

Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering SJCET Palai Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering Software Development Center 20250122T04:01:2200:00 STUDENTS ACHIEVEMENTS Alby Babu and Liz Elizabeth Biju of S7 ECE202125Batch got placed at Schneider Electric Toppers of S2 University Examination 20232027 Batch Toppers of S4 University Examination 20222026 Batch Toppers of S6 University Examination 20212025 Batch Toppers of S8 University Examination 20202024 Batch Toppers of S8 University Examination 20202024 Batch TOP ACHEIVERS OF 20202024 BatchStudents with First class Distinction Mr.Abhijith.J, S3 ECE202327 Batch secured third prize in the marathon competition held on 29072024 at Kottayam organized by the Kerala State AIDS Control Society KSACS as part of the districtlevel Youth FestivalKSACS Youth Fest 202425.

IEEE Computer Society SJCET Palai SJCET Palai IEEE Computer Society SJCET Palai Software Development Center 20240418T09:28:4600:00 The IEEE Computer Society is the worlds leading membership organization dedicated to computer science and technology. Serving more than 60,000 members, the IEEE Computer Society is the trusted information, networking, and careerdevelopment source for a global community of technology leaders that includes researchers, educators, software engineers, IT professionals, employers, and students. AKCSSC 2019 IEEE Computer Society AKCSSC 19, the fifth edition of All Kerala Computer Society Student Convention will be hosted by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai. With an expected count of 200 participants, AKCSSC19 is themed on The Evolution of Technology. AKCSSC 2019 IEEE Computer Society AKCSSC 19, the fifth edition of All Kerala Computer Society Student Convention will be hosted by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai. With an expected count of 200 participants, AKCSSC19 is themed on The Evolution of Technology. AKCSSC 2019 IEEE Computer Society AKCSSC 19, the fifth edition of All Kerala Computer Society Student Convention will be hosted by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai. With an expected count of 200 participants, AKCSSC19 is themed on The Evolution of Technology. AKCSSC 2019 IEEE Computer Society AKCSSC 19, the fifth edition of All Kerala Computer Society Student Convention will be hosted by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai. With an expected count of 200 participants, AKCSSC19 is themed on The Evolution of Technology. AKCSSC 2019 IEEE Computer Society AKCSSC 19, the fifth edition of All Kerala Computer Society Student Convention will be hosted by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai. With an expected count of 200 participants, AKCSSC19 is themed on The Evolution of Technology. EVENTS SL.NONAME DATE 1 TECH SCRIBER 26th June 2022 2 Techie Pods 1 Into the Metaverse 6: A session on Metaverse. 1st July 2022 3 SLASH KEY 8: A 30hourlong hackathon. The primary objective of this event was to provide an opportunity for potential candidates to build solutions for realworld problems. 9 10 July 2022 4 MasterC.exe 10: A peertopeer learning session on C Programming. 2628 August 2022 5 Handson Session Photoshop 12: A handson session on Photoshop to enhance the design potential of our participants. 1720 October 2022 6 CROSSTECH 14: The primary objective of this competition was to evaluate the awareness of the student members regarding the affairs of IEEE and to instil a spirit of volunteering in them. 2nd October 2022 7 IEEE XTREME 16.0 15:IEEE Xtreme 16.0 was the 16th edition of the international hackathon, conducted by IEEE on a global level. It is one of the most recognizable events in the world. October 22, 2022 8 Tehie Pods 2 Career in App Development with Flutter: A peertopeer learning session on Career in App Development using Flutter. November 28, 2022 9 ISRO Odyssey is a web designing competition inspired by ISROs achievements. Participants create websites illustrating ISROs history and milestones, celebrating its enduring legacy. 31 Sep 2023 10 PREP TALK: The TECH INTERVIEW: The event was an exclusive online session, where the participants gained invaluable insights and strategies for acing coding technical interviews. 2nd October 2023 ACHIEVEMENTS Blogging is a skill, one that takes practice to perfect. Like fine wine, the more experience, the better. Authoring articles, poems and blogs are todays go to way of expressing oneself on the internet. IEEE Computer Society Kerala Chapter TechThreads is an initiative to accelerate this drive in its student members. This is a chance for our students to express themselves, your thoughts, your two cents on matters of concern to all, and we give you a stage. The authors of the approved blogs posts will be provided with certificates and recognition. The entries will be judged on the basis of novelty, originality and pragmatism of the submitted blog.

Faculty Development ProgramsFDP SJCET Palai Faculty Development ProgramsFDP Software Development Center 20190614T05:56:2900:00 FDP ON RECENT ADVANCES IN FUEL CELLS Dept. of Mechanical Engineering, St. Josephs College of Engineering Technology Palai announces fiveday Faculty Development Program APJAKTU sponsored on Recent Advances in Fuel Cells during 8 12 July 2019. For registration, fill the online form

Fr. Jeethu Mathew SJCET Palai Fr. Jeethu Mathew Software Development Center 20250325T10:44:0400:00 Rev. Dr. Jeethu Mathew Assistant Professor Department of Computer Applications Mobile Number: 91 9495127007 Email: frjithusjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining: 08.01.2018 Nature of association: Regular Education Experience FDP STTP Webinars Paper Publications Education Sl.NoQualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of passingSpecialization 1 Graduation Mahatma Gandhi BVM Holy Cross,Cherpunkal 2015 Computer Applications BCA 2 Post Graduation Mahatma Gandhi SJCET 2017 Computer Applications MCA 3 Ph.D. Bharathidasan University Bishop Heber College Trichy 2024 Internet of Things Experience Date of joining SJCET: 08.01.2018 Present status: Asst.Professor Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience 1 SJCET Asst. Professor 08012018 to 19092019 2 Bishop Heber College Trichy FullTime Research Scholar 20092019 to 28012021 3 SJCET Asst. Professor 29012024 to till date FDP STTP Two weeks Faculty Development Programme on National Conference on Predictive Analysis Conducted by Saintgits College of Engineering Kottayam, Kerala from 09102019 to 19102019. Five days Online Course on Internet of Things IoT Current Developments Conducted by BECHRUSA 2.0, Bharathidasan University on 8th 12th May 2020. Three days international digital conclave on Innovations in Teaching Learning, A Global Perspective organized by Amal Jyothi College of Engineering Kottayam and Marian College Kuttikkanam, Kerala from 14072020 to 16072020. International FDP on Linux Fundamentals with Cloud and Container Platform by Marian College Kuttikkanam and IPSR Solutions Ltd Kottayam Kerala from 22072020 to 28072020. Five days FDP on Know Everything related to Research conducted by Ilahia College of Engineering and Technology Muvattupuzha, Kerala from 23072020 to 28072020. Six days STTP on Incorporating the Techniques of Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence to face the Security and Privacy challenges of IT Infrastructure Industry approach Implementation organized by KCG College of Technology Chennai from 23112020 to 28112020. A two days FDP on MS Excel Essentials for Academicians organized by Department of Commerce and Professional Studies IQAC, Rajagiri College of Social Sciences Kalamassery on 20 21st November 2020. AICTE sponsored one week online shortterm training programme on Recent Emerging Trends in Wireless Communication Using IoT conducted by the Department of electronics and communication engineering, Vidya Jyothi Institute of Technology Hyderabad from 07122022 to 12122020. AICTE sponsored online oneweek STTP under AQIS on Recent Trends in Internet of Things conducted by Anurag engineering College Telangana from 14th December 2020 to 19th December 2020. A six days STTP on Incorporating the Techniques of Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence to face the Security and Privacy challenges of IT Infrastructure Research approach organized by KCG College of Technology Chennai from 14122020 to 19122020. A six days STTP on Smart Computing Technologies and Applications organized by Department of computer science and engineering, MES College of engineering, Kuttippuram from 14th December 2020 to 19th December 2020. A six days STTP on IoT and Data Science conducted by Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology Palai from 28th December 2020 to 2nd January 2021. Six days online international workshop on Machine Learning Applicationsan Industrial Perspective organized by Department of MCA, St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology Palai from 11th January 2021 to 16th January 2021. A six days STTP on Incorporating the Techniques of Blockchain and Artificial Intelligence to face the Security and Privacy challenges of IT Infrastructure International Practices and Experiences organized by KCG College of Technology Chennai from 18012021 to 23012021. A three days faculty development program on Systemizing ResultsProblem Finding to Patenting organized by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology Kochi from 29th March to 31st March 2021. A five days FDP on Analysis and Implementation of Data Security on Hosts and Networks organized by Department of computer science and engineering, Muthoot Institute of Technology and Science from 10th May 2021 to 15th May 2021. A five days online faculty development program on Infrastructure and Security Challenges in Cloud Computing organized by Department of computer science and engineering, SCMS School of Engineering and Technology Karukutty from 19th July 2021 to 24th July 2021. A five days FDP on AI into Data Science: A Pedagogical Approach organized by the Department of Electronics and Communication engineering, St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology Palai from 9th August 2021 to 13th August 2021. A six days STTP on Artificial Intelligence and Applications organized by the Department of computer science and engineering, Marian Engineering College Trivandrum from 23rd August 2021 to 28th August 2021. One day faculty development program on Research Integrity and Ethics in Scientific Research organized by the UG Department of computer applications, Bishop Heber College Trichy on 25th August 2021. A three days FDP on Pandas Data Wrangling Boot Camp from 25th October 2021 to 27th October 2021 conducted by the Department of data science, Bishop Heber College Trichy. Seven days orientation programme on Anaconda Data Science Techniques organized by IFET College of Engineering Villupuram, Tamil Nadu from 20th December 2021 to 27th December 2021. A seven days National FDP on Pedagogy and Learning: Mapping New Approaches organized by IQAC, Jyoti Nivas College Autonomous Bengaluru from 3rd January to 9th January 2022. One day FDP on AI in Business organize by the Department of Data Science, St. Josephs College Autonomous Tiruchirappalli on 11th January 2022. A five days ATAL Academy Online Elementary FDP on Wearable Devices conducted by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai from 17th January 2022 to 21st January 2022. Six days orientation programme on Recent Advancements in Deep Learning organized by Anuraag Engineering College, Ananthagiri, Telangana from 7th February 2022 to 12th February 2022. A five days FDP on Patents and Innovative Teaching and Research Methodology organized by Department of Computer Science SF II, Bishop Heber College Trichy from 2nd March 2022 to 6th March 2022. A five days International FDP on Advance Research and Quality Publication conducted by Federal Institute of Science and Technology Ernakulam from 29th August 2022 to 2nd September 2022. Seven days National Level Online FDP on Outcome Based Education organized by St. James College of Nursing and St James Pharmaceutical Sciences, Chalakudy in association with The Kerala State Higher Education Council from 8th March to 15th One day FDP on Trustworthy AI organized by the Department of Data Science, St. Josephs College Autonomous, Tiruchirappalli on 12th March 2023. Seven days FDP on Open AI for Academicians conducted by the Department of Data Science, St. Josephs College Autonomous, Tiruchirappalli from 16th August to 22nd August 2023. Eight days National Level Virtual FDP on NAAC Accreditation Framework organized by Guru Shree Shantivijai Jain College for Women, Chennai from 9th September to 16th September 2023. Webinars A One Day State Level Seminar on Green IoT held at St. Josephs College, Trichy on 13th December 2019. Webinar on The Governance on Cyberspace: CoProduction of Cyber Security conducted by Manonmaniam Sundaranar University Indian Society of Criminology on 23052020. National webinar on How to write a Research Paper Conducted by Mar Baselios Institute of Technology and Science Kothamangalam, Kerala on 31052020. Webinar on IoT EyeOpener Session conducted by Pavai Engineering College Namakkal on 05062020. International webinar on Writing without Plagiarism Conducted by Government Arts College Trichy on 10062020. A One Day Webinar on Online Content Creation Tools Organized by Department of Computer Science shiftII, Bishop Heber College on 11062020. A Webinar on IoT for Agriculture conducted by IIIT Kottayam, Kerala on 11062020. A One Day International Webinar on Data Analytics and Applications Organized by Department of Computer Science shiftII, Bishop Heber College on 12062020 Webinar on Enhancing Effectiveness of Online Learning Conducted by Amal Jyothi College of Engineering Kottayam and Marian College Kuttikkanam, Kerala on 17062020. A One Day International Webinar on Online Examination Tools Organized by Department of Computer Science shiftII, Bishop Heber College on 20062020. A One Day Webinar on Predatory Journals A Growing Threat for Academicians Organized by Department of Computer Science shiftII, Bishop Heber College on 04072020. A oneday international webinar on Online Research Tools Organized by Department of Computer Science shiftII, Bishop Heber College on 10072020. One day Webinar on Demystifying AI, ML and Data Science Conducted by College of Engineering Perumon and, Kerala on 20072020. One day webinar on Effective Method for Research Publication and Citation organized by PG Department of computer science, Bishop Heber College Trichy on 28042021. One day webinar on Research Issues and Challenges in Internet of Things organized by PG Department of computer science, Bishop Heber College Trichy on 29042021. One day webinar on PostDoctoral Studies organized by PG Department of computer science, Bishop Heber College Trichy on 30042021. One day webinar on Cloud Computing and Data Analytics organized by Department of computer applications, Sree Narayana Gurukulam College of Engineering and Technology Kolenchery on 5th June 2021. One day seminar on Effective research planning and execution using Scopus and Sciencedirect conducted by University of Jammu on 17th December 2021. One day webinar on Cyber Security organized by IEEE SB Kottayam and Institute Innovation Council IIIT Kottayam on 27th December 2021. One day webinar on Preparing for the Quantum Era organized by IIIT Kottayam on 27th January 2022. One day webinar on Why do we want to take quantum to space organized by IIIT Kottayam on 10th February 2022. One day webinar on 3D Computer Vision organized by ACM and IIC IIIT Kottayam on 12th February 2022. One day webinar on How to use Quantum to solve real world problems organized by IIIT Kottayam on 24th February 2022. Paper Publications Mathew, J., and R. Jemima Priyadarsini. Enhancing Security in IoT Healthcare Services Using Fog Computing. International Journal of Advanced Science and Technology 28.17 2019: 444450.Scopus Mathew, J., and R. Jemima Priyadarsini,2020 A Review on DDoS attacks on IoT. Solid State Technology, 634, 80008009 Mathew, J. ., Priyadarsini R, J. . 2023. A Generalized Renyi Joint Entropy Method for the Detection of DDoS Attacks in IoT. International Journal on Recent and Innovation Trends in Computing and Communication, 116, 248252. Scopus. Mathew, J. ., Priyadarsini , R. J. . 2023. Efficient DDOS Detection in Internet of Medical Things using CNNACL Approach. International Journal of Intelligent Systems and Applications in Engineering, 114, 789799. Scopus. Mathew, Jeethu, and R. Jemima Priyadarsini. Efficient DDOS Prevention in Internet of Medical Things Using 2aes and Digital Signature Approaches. Journal of Electrical Systems20.7s 2024: 35773590 Web of Science, Scopus

NAAC Criterions Old SJCET Palai 5.1.1 1 Percentage of students benefited by scholarships and freeships provided by the Government agencies during last five years 202122 5.1.1 1.1 a Sanction Letter from the Government 5.1.1 1.1 b List of Students benefited 202021 5.1.1 1.2 a Sanction Letter from the Government 5.1.1 1.2 b List of Students benefited 201920 5.1.1 1.3 a Sanction Letter from the Government 5.1.1 1.3 b List of Students benefited 201819 5.1.1 1.4 a Sanction Letter from the Government 5.1.1 1.4 b List of Students benefited 201718 5.1.1 1.5 a Sanction Letter from the Government 5.1.1 1.5 b List of Students benefited 5.1.1 2 Percentage of students benefited by scholarships and freeships provided by the NonGovernment agencies and philanthropists during last five years 202122 5.1.1 2.1 a Policy Document of the Institution 5.1.1 2.1 b List of students benefited 202021 5.1.1 2.2 a Policy Document of the Institution 5.1.1 2.2 b List of students benefited 201920 5.1.1 2.3 a Policy Document of the Institution 5.1.1 2.3 b List of students benefited 201819 5.1.1 2.4 a Policy Document of the Institution 5.1.1 2.4 b List of students benefited 201718 5.1.1 2.5 a Policy Document of the Institution 5.1.1 2.5 b List of students benefited 5.1.2 Capacity building and skills enhancement initiatives taken by the institution 5.1.2 1 Soft skills 5.1.2 2 Language and communication skills 5.1.2 3 Life skills Yoga, physical fitness, health and hygiene 5.1.2 4 ICTcomputing skills 5.1.3 Percentage of students benefitted by guidance for competitive examinations and career counselling offered by the Institution during the last five years 202122 5.1.3 1 a Soft copy of Circular brochure report of program 5.1.3 1 b List of Participants 202021 5.1.3 2 a Soft copy of Circular brochure report of program 5.1.3 2 b List of Participants 201920 5.1.3 3 a Soft copy of Circular brochure report of program 5.1.3 3 b List of Participants 201819 5.1.3 4 a Soft copy of Circular brochure report of program 5.1.3 4 b List of Participants 201718 5.1.3 5 a Soft copy of Circular brochure report of program 5.1.3 5 b List of Participants 5.1.4 The Institution has a transparent mechanism for timely redressal of student grievances including sexual harassment and ragging cases 5.1.4 1 Implementation of guidelines of statutory regulator bodies 5.1.4 1 a AICTE Guidelines 5.1.4 2 Organisation wide awareness and undertakings on policies with zero tolerance 5.1.4 2 a Affidavit from Students and Parents 5.1.4 2 b Affidavit from Students and Parents Hostel 5.1.4 3 Mechanisms for submission of onlineoffline students grievances 5.1.4 3 a Mechanisms for submission of online students grievances 5.1.4 3 b Mechanisms for submission of offline students grievances 5.1.4 4 Timely redressal of the grievances through appropriate committees 5.1.4 4.1 AntiRagging Committee 5.1.4 4.1 a Constitution of the Committee 5.1.4 4.1 b Minutes of the Meeting 5.1.4 4.2 Internal Complaint Committee 5.1.4 4.2 a Constitution of the Committee 5.1.4 4.2 b Minutes of the Meeting 5.1.4 4.3 Student Grievance and Redressal Committee 5.1.4 4.3 a Constitution of the Committee 5.1.4 4.3 b Minutes of the Meeting

MBAHome SJCET Palai MBAHome Software Development Center 20240319T04:32:0300:00 Management is doing things right leadership is doing the right things. Peter Drucker St.Josephs Business School was started in the Year 2006. Its establishment was the fulfillment of a long cherished dream of providing facilities for professional education to the people of the surrounding regions.From its very inception SJCET School of Management had been relevantly establishing an impeccable reputation among the general public, the emerging professionals and the various visiting committees as a College which stands out. Affiliated to APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University, Kerala, the school offers Masters programme in Business Administration. The aim is to provide an education that helps the nandrolone decanoate tabs for sale students to realize their full potential and be business and industry ready when finishing the course. With this in view, facilities are provided in the college for personality development, Yoga and meditation training, learning skills development, employability skills development, communication skills development, expert counselling services, special coaching for weaker students and sports and games facilities. Vision Mission Motto Vision To emerge as a centre of excellence in the field of management education with a distinct identity and character in all areas of activities. Mission To maintain a conducive infrastructure and a learning environment to become a centre of excellence. To nurture a team of dedicated, competent and research oriented faculty. To support and promote student development for their successful career. Motto Our motto is holistic development of students by providing facilities and opportunities for their intellectual, physical, moral, social and cultural and spiritual enrichment and thereby transforming them in to responsible and dedicated citizens of country. Placement Training: A Journey Towards Professional ExcellenceSt. Josephs Business School, St. Josephs College of Engineering Technology, Autonomous, in association with Prep Academy, organized a fourday placement training session for finalyear MBA and MTech students of the 20232025 batch. Entrepreneurship Essentials: Building and Scaling Your Business for Success The WINGS 2.0: A Project of Nazrani Margam third semester MBA students attending entrepreneurship development program held at the St. Berchmans College Auditorium, Changanacherry, from August 2nd to August 4th, 2024. Future Leaders Forum: Unlocking Business Insights for Tomorrows Innovators Third Semester MBA students 202325 batch attending Pala Management Association Business meeting at the Alphonsin Pastoral Institute, on July 25th, 2024. Mastering the Art of Soft Skills: Unlock Your Potential for Success soft skills training for MBA S3 20232025 Batch by Mr. Rohan Hubert, Accounts Manager, MIDAS consulting on 6th July 2024 Excel Essentials: Unlocking the Power of Spreadsheets A comprehensive Microsoft Excel training session and exam conducted from 5th Aug to 9th Aug 2024 at St. Josephs Business School, St. Josephs College of Engineering Technology Autonomous, for the MBA S3 students of the 2023 2025 batch. Bridging Experience and Academia: Mr. Vishal Thomas Payikad, Priority Relationship Manager, Federal Bank, Pathanamthitta and MBA 201820 Alum, Offers RealWorld Insights to FirstYear MBA Students Embarking on a New Journey: MBA 20242026 Batch Inauguration Ceremony Breaking the Ice, Building Skills: Kathiravan Pethi, Leadership and Public Speaking Coach, Kickstarts the Journey for FirstYear MBA Students 202426 batch Behind the Headlines: FirstYear MBA Students 20242026 batch Tour Malayala Manorama Printing Press Unit, Kottayam for a Glimpse into Media Production Setting the Table for Success: First year MBA Students 20242026 batch refine their dining etiquette with Mr. Varghese Johnson, HOD, St. Josephs Institute of Hotel Management on 13th August 2024 Building Bonds, Forging Leaders: MBA FirstYear Students 2024206 batch Engage in Dynamic Team Building Exercises with Er. Babu Sanker, Assistant Professor, Mechanical Department, SJCET Second year MBA students visited Holiday Inn, Kochi as part of Industrial visit S4 MBA20222024 BATCH STUDENTS Second year MBA students visited Sea Blue Shipyard Ltd, Cochin as part of Industrial visit Experience sharing by alumnus Ms. Teresa Joy MBA 20092011 BATCH S4 MBA students attending Value Added Course VAC offered by Hedge Equities, Cochin S4 MBA students visited the Mariyasadanam Rehabilitation Centre, Pala S2 MBA students visited CIAL solar power plant, Cochin on 26th March 2024 as part of Industrial visit S4 MBA Students visited IKEA, Bengaluru S4 MBA Students visited Stovekraft at Bidathi Industrial area, Bangalore S4 MBA Students visited Bengaluru for a Knowledge Exchange Programme Kristu Jayanti College and St. Josephs Business School, Palai on 11032024 SJBS MBA Staff 202123 MBA Batch 202022 MBA Batch IndustrialVisit to Jeevan Tea Factory SJBS industrial visits wemeanbusiness SJBS industrial visits wemeanbusiness SJBS industrial visits wemeanbusiness SJBS Student Leadership Participants for National Level MDP organised by Kristu Jayanti College Banglore SJBS Student Leadership Paper presented at International Conference Organised by Macfast College CURRICULUM Eligibility Candidates who have been awarded or qualified for the award of the Bachelors degree in Engineering Technology Business Administration with 50 marks in aggregate or Bachelors degree in Arts Science Commerce with 50 marks in aggregate for the main course papers are eligible to apply for admission to the MBA programme.The aspiring candidates should also posses a valid CATCMATKMAT Score. Trimester MBA programme will be structured on credit based system following the trimester pattern with continuous evaluation. Duration for the MBA programme will normally be six trimesters. Each trimester shall have 55 instruction days i.e. 11 weeks of instruction. The general course structure of MBA programme will be as given below Core courses Specialization Electives Project work A Student can opt for specialization in the second year as per rules framed for this by the Academic Board for Management Programme ABM of APJ Abdul Kalam Technological University. Curricula for the first three trimesters will be common for all specializations of the MBA programme. Academic Calendar The University shall publish the academic calendar for every academic trimesteryear, indicating the commencement of trimesters as well as instructions, course registration dates, enrollment dates, weeks in which the mandatory internal tests are to be conducted, dates for completing internal evaluations, last instruction day in the trimester, schedule of trimester examinations and official holidays in the trimester academic year. OUR STRENGTH INITIATIVES BEYOND THE CLASS ROOM EXPERT TALKS St.Josephs Business School regularly Invites experts from diverse fields to share their insights on topics of current relevance.This helps the budding manages to stay updated with the industry and to connect with them. FOREIGN COLLABORATIONS St.Josephs Businesss School actively collaborate with foreign universities for various academic programs. CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS Students can can choose from a wide range of certified programmes offered for enhancing their expertise in their domain areas. WISDOM STRIDES Wisdom strides is an innovative programme which gives students a chance to walk along with successful personalities and to hear their words of wisdom . SOFT SKILLS DEVELOPMENT TRAINING Training programmes by expert outside agencies are arranged for developing various employment related skills such as effective communication, leadership skills, group activity skills, motivation etc. INDUSTRIAL VISIT Visits to industries are an integral part of management studies. It enables the students to get a glimpse of the industry so as to get a practical exposure in real time. The management operations can also be understood to a great extent. ENTREPRENEURIAL INITIATIVES The department is keen in organizing various programs aimed at cultivating entrepreneurial skills among students under the auspicious of ED Cell.Interactions with well known Entrepreneurs,workshops,awareness programs , paper presentations etc. are a regular feature of our MBA Programme Community Development Programme St.Josephs Business School conduct community development activities with the aim of imbibing amongst students selfless service to the community, dignity of labour, importance of selfhelp, and the need to protect the environment. LEARNING SKILLS DEVELOPMENT TRAINING This is a unique training programme for students arranged by this college. Lectures are given on how to learn effectively and how to manage the time available for students in the most effective way. STUDENT ACTIVITIES ACHIEVEMENTS FEE STRUCTURE Your Content Goes Here TypeTrimester 1Trimester 2Trimester 3Trimester 4Trimester 5Trimester 6TOTAL Amount in Rs. TOTAL FEE 66700 64700 65100 65700 64700 65600 392500 Payment Schedule 1st Instalment 14082019 2nd Instalment 14112019 3rd Instalment 14022020 4th Instalment 14072020 5th Instalment 14102020 6th Instalment 15022021

Meera Kuncheria SJCET Palai Date of joining SJCET : 15102007 Status as on date of joining : Lecturer Present status : Assistant Professor Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 St.Thomas College of Allied Health Science,Chethipuzha Lecturer 2years Sl. NoName of TrainingWorkshopYear Date DurationOrganizer 1 Teaching Excellence and methodologies 25052009 to 30052009 Govt. EngineerignCollege,Thrissur 2 Faculty Development Programme 24052010 to 26052010 MG university,kottayam 3 Faculty Development Program on Gender Equality and workplace security August September 2022 NPTEL 4 International FDP on Advanced Research and quality Publication 2982022 to2092022 Federal Institute of Science and Technology 5 Pedagogy and Learning: Mapping New Approaches 3rd January to 9th January 2022 Jyoti Nivas College, Bengaluru 6 Faculty Development programme on Goods and Service tax 9th August to 14th August 2021. Institute of Chartered Accountants of India 7 Faculty Development Programme in Trends and Challenges in Digital Business Innovation 26th July to 30th July 2021 Jawahar Lal Business School, Palakkad 8 International Finance Conclave on FinTech: Digital Transformation in the Pandemic Era July 31, 2021 CMS Business School, JAIN Deemedtobe University 9 Faculty development workshop on Accounting Standards 27th October to 30th October 2020 Institute of Chartered Accountants of India, ICAI, Ernakulam Branch 10 STTP on Outcome based Education and Quality Assurance in Teaching 17th August to 22nd August 2020. SCMS School of Technology and Management 11 STTP on Outcome based Education and Quality Assurance in Teaching 28th September to 4th October 2020 SCMS School of Technology and Management, Kerala 12 Faculty Development Programme on Decision Making using Financial Accounting July September 2019 NPTEL

Mereen Thomas SJCET Palai Mereen Thomas Software Development Center 20220509T06:55:5300:00 Prof. Mereen Thomas Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Engineering Mobile Number: 91 9847043961 Email: mereen.thomassjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining:01.09.2008 Education Experience Memberships Publications STTP Conference Seminars Workshops Education DegreeSpecializationInstitutionUniversityYear of Passing B.Tech. Computer Science University College of Engineering, Mahatma Gandhi 2005 M.Tech. Computer Science College of Engineering , Guindy Campus Anna University 2014 Experience Name of the CollegeIndustryDesignationDate of JoiningDate of Relieving Mangalam College of Engineering Lecturer February 18, 2008 August 22, 2008 Memberships Name of the Institution: ISTE Publications An Approach to understand Human Behaviour Pattern ,in International Journal of Computer Trends and Technology, Vol. 12 issue 1 2014, ISSN:22312803 Visual Role Mining Using Adviser and Extraction Algorithm in Business Environment, in International Journal of Engineering Research Technology,Volume.3, Issue.04, April 2014 , ISSN:22780181 Secure Authorized Deduplication and Differential Query Services in Cost Efficient Cloud , in International Journal for Innovative Research in Science Technology, Volume 2, Issue 6 Nov 2015, ISSN online :23496010 A Review on PrivacyConserving Public Auditing for Shared Data in Cloud Computing Placement Prediction using Various Machine Learning Models and their Efficiency Comparison in the International Journal of Innovative Science and Research Technology Volume5, Issue5, May2020, ISSN No: 24562165. NonInvasive Anaemic Detection in the International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology IRJET eISSN: 23950056 Volume: 07 Issue: 05 | May 2020 WE4YOUSystem for Online Medicine Purchasing and Online Consulation,in International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology, Volume 8, Issue 6, June 2021, eISSN: 23950056. WEBSKOOL Integrated Platform for Online Education,in International Research Journal of Engineering and Technology, Volume 8, Issue 6, July 2021, eISSN: 23950056. STTP Conference Seminars Workshops Participated in One Day Workshop on Nano Technology Significance Applications organised by Department of Mechanical Engineering in Nov 2008 Participated in STTP on Linux Networking and System Administration organised by Department of Computer Science Engineering in Dec 2008 Presented a paper on Web Based iLabs in Feb 2009 Attended International Workshop on Open Source Tool for Engineering in October 2009 Participated in STTP on Advances in Image Processing in Nov 2009 Attended a STTP on Soft Computing :Methodologies and Applications in Feb 2010 Attended STP on Pedagogic Strategies for Effective Engineering Education in Nov 2010 Presented a paper on An Approach to Understand Human Behaviour Pattern in National Conference in March 2014 Participated in TwoWeek ISTE Workshop on Computer Programming in MayJune 2014 Attended Two day ISTE eSeminar on Steps 2 Research in Sep 2014 Participated in TwoWeek ISTE STTP on Introduction to Design of Algorithms in May 2015 Participated in TwoWeek ISTE Workshop on Technical Communication in Dec 2015 Participated in the Workshop Pursue, Publish, Prosper in March 2016 Participated in an FDP on Design Thinking in July 2018. Presented a paper on A Study on Mobile AdHoc Networks in the International Conference on Innovative trends in Science and Technology on 27th Nov 2018 Successfully completed an NPTEL 12 weeks course on Computer Organization and Architecture on April 2019. Presented a paper on Soundmate : A hearing Aid Application in National Conference on Advances in Smart Computing and Data Science on 8th May 2019 Presented a paper on Phishing Website Detection using Machine Learning Implemented as Browser Extention on 8th May 2019. Successfully completed an NPTEL 12 weeks course on Introduction to Internet of Things in October 2019. Successfully completed Software Development Processes and Methodologies an online noncredit 10 weeks course authorized by University of Michigan and offered through Coursera on 19052020. Participated in the 6 days AICTE sponsored short term training programme on BLOCKCHAIN FUNDAMENTALS from 24th 29th August, 2020 Participated in 6 days AICTE sponsored short term training programme on Guidance and Counselling from 7th 12th Dec 2020 Participated in the sponsored AICTE Training and Learning ATAL Academy Online FDP on Data Sciences from 18th to 22nd Jan 2021. Participated in the sponsored AICTE Training And Learning ATAL Academy Online FDP on Blockchain from 22nd 26th February 2021. Successfully completed an NPTEL 8 weeks course on Cloud Computing and Distributed Systems in March 2021. Participated in the KTU Sponsored 5 days online FDP on Practical Data Science from 19th to 23rd July 2021.

Minna Roselin Cherian SJCET Palai Minna Roselin Cherian Software Development Center 20220428T10:16:0500:00 Prof. Minna Roselin Cherian Assistant Professor Department of Civil Engineering Mobile Number: 91 8547973749 Email:minnaroselinsjcetpalai.ac.in Date of Joining: 1112021 Education Experience FDP Education CourseSpecializationCollegeUniversityYear 1 M Tech Structural Engineering and Construction Management Mar Athanasious College of Engineering, Kothamangalam MG University 2015 Experience InstitutionPositionPeriod 1 BTC College of Engineering Technology, Koothattukulam Assistant Professor 172014 30112014 FDP Outcome based Education in Professional Institutions held during 27122021 to 112022 organized by St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai. . Advances in Bridge Engineering held during 2132022 to 2532022 organized by Government Engineering College, Thrissur

Sumithmon KS SJCET Palai Sumithmon KS Software Development Center 20240415T05:44:2800:00 Prof.Sumithmon KS Assistant Professor Department of Computer Applications Mobile Number: 91 9562373008 Email:sumithmarargmail.com Date of Joining:03.01.2018 Nature of association: Regular Education Experience Faculty Development Programme Lectures Delivered MOOC NPTEL SWAYAM Education Sl.NoQualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of passingSpecialization 1 Graduation MahathmaGhandhi University Devamatha College of Arts and Science, Kuravilangad 2010 BScMathematics 2 Post Graduation MahathmaGhandhi University ILAHIA college of engineering and technology, Muvattupuzha 2013 Computer Application 3 PhD APJAKTU Trivandrum SJCET Palai Pursuing Recommendation System Experience Industrial Experience : Nil Teaching Experience :1 year Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 BCA departmentMar Kuriakose College,Puthuvely. Asst. Prof. 3.5 years 2 BCA departmentMarygiri college, Koothattukulam . Asst. Prof. 1.5 years 3 MCA department St Joseph Engineering college, Palai Lecturer 11 month Faculty Development Programme Sl NoWorkshopFDPStart DateEnd DateOrganized BySponsered By 1 Android Developer Fundamentals July 17, 2018 July 21, 2018 Mangalam College of Engineering Ettumanoor Google Certification 2 Python for Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning July 8, 2019 July 13, 2019 TKM College of Engineering, Kollam TEQIPII 3 National Conference on Predictive analysis October 9, 2019 October 19, 2019 Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam AICTE 4 Robotics and Automation July 13, 2020 July 18, 2020 Vellore Institute of Technology VIT Chennai 5 Recent Trends and Advancement in IT July 27, 2020 August 1, 2020 Federal Institute of Science and Technology, Ernakulam 6 Block chain fundamentals August 24, 2020 August 29, 2020 Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam 7 Block Chain Application August 25, 2020 July 27, 2018 Saintgits College of Engineering, Kottayam 8 System Administration and networking Using FOSS tools May 18, 2021 May 20, 2021 College of Engineering Attingal ICFOSS 9 Mentoring and Thinking Skills for Engineering of faculty September 1, 2021 September 3, 2021 Amal Jyothi College of Engineering, Kanjirappally KTU 10 Mathematical Foundation for Machine Learning November 22, 2021 November 26, 2021 Sree Buddha College of Engineering, Pattor ATAL 11 Internet of Things IoT A Practical Approach December 6, 2021 December 10, 2021 Maharaja Surajmal Institute of Technology. ATAL 12 Insight of research, publication and patent filing April 20, 2022 April 22, 2022 Carmel College of Engineering and Technology Punnapra 13 Advanced research and quality publication August 29, 2022 September 2, 2022 Federal Institute of Science and Technology, Ernakulam 14 Blockchain Technology and its Application January 16, 2023 January 20, 2023 St. Josephs College of Engineering and Technology, Palai KTU 15 Online FDP on Data Science using Python January 24, 2023 January 26, 2023 Mangalam College of Engineering Ettumanoor 16 Nature Inspired Machine Learning Techniques in IOT March 22, 2023 March 24, 2023 Amal Jyothi College of Engineering , Kanjirappally KTU 17 Deep Learning January 1, 2023 April 19, 2023 NPTEL AICTE Lectures Delivered Sl NoLectures DeliveredDateWorksopSeminarInstitute 1 Mobile Application Development March 9, 2023 January 5, 1900 Dept.Computer Application SJCET 2 Version Control System GITLAB January 24, 2023 January 8, 1900 Marygiri College Koothattukulam MOOC NPTEL SWAYAM Sl NoMOOCDate From 1 Introduction to internet of things JanApr 2020 12 WEEKS NPTEL SWAYAM 2 Deep Learning IIT Roper JanApr 2023 12 WEEKS NPTEL SWAYAM

Sumithmon KS SJCET Palai Sumithmon KS Software Development Center 20181221T09:38:1300:00 Prof.Sumithmon KS Assistant Professor Department of Computer Science Applications Mobile Number: 91 9562373008 Email:sumithmarargmail.com Education Experience Memberships FDP Education QualificationUniversityInstitutionYear of passingSpecialization Graduation MahathmaGhandhi University Devamatha College of Arts and Science, Kuravilangad 2010 BScMathematics Post Graduation MahathmaGhandhi University ILAHIA college of engineering and technology, Muvattupuzha 2013 Computer Application Experience Teaching Experience : 5 year Sl. NoName of the collegeIndustryDesignationExperience Years Months 1 BCA department.Mar Kuriakose College,Puthuvely. Asst. Prof. 3.5 years 2 BCA department. Marygiri college, Koothattukulam . Asst. Prof. 1.5 years 3 MCA department,St Joseph Engineering college, Palai Lecturer 11 month Memberships Name of TrainingWorkshopYear Date DurationOrganizer Android Developer Fundamentals 17 to 21 ICT Academy of Kerala. FDP Name of TrainingWorkshopYear Date DurationOrganizer Android Developer Fundamentals 17 to 21 ICT Academy of Kerala.

Autonomous Alert SJCET Palai End Semester Regular Examination Schedule, December 2024 2024 Scheme End Semester Regular Examination Schedule, December 2024 2024 Scheme By Software Development Center| 20250106T09:05:0600:00 January 6th, 2025|Autonomous Alert|0 Comments Read More End Semester Regular Examination Schedule, December 2024 2024 Scheme End Semester Regular Examination Schedule, December 2024 2024 Scheme : By Software Development Center| 20241214T05:36:0600:00 December 14th, 2024|Autonomous Alert|0 Comments Read More EndSemester Examination The endsemester examination for B.Tech, M.Tech, MCA, Integrated MCA, and By Software Development Center| 20241214T05:04:5500:00 November 25th, 2024|Autonomous Alert|0 Comments Read More
